 You may have heard of the chemical defoliant Agent Orange in reference to the U.S. Military’s herbicidal warfare program in Vietnam. The forests were sprayed with the goal of depriving guerrillas of their rural support and food supply by forcing peasant farmers to flee to cities, which were dominated by U.S. forces. One of many negative side effects of this policy is a toxic chemical compound within Agent Orange which resulted in an estimated 400,000 people being killed or maimed, and 500,000 children being born with . Today, a major component of Agent Orange (2,4-D) is still used to control the growth of weeds, and the  is seeking approval for a new genetically engineered corn (DAS-40278-9) which is designed to survive repeated spraying of the toxic herbicide.Many studies have shown a proven link between 2,4-D exposure and the major health problems that those in Vietnam suffered, including cancer, lowered sperm counts, liver toxicity, Parkinson’s disease, endocrine disruption, reproductive issues, neurotoxicity, and . The EPA reports that 2,4-D is the seventh largest U.S. source of , which are believed to be the major cause of many serious medical conditions, as well as the birth defects suffered by the children of parents who were exposed in Vietnam. If Dow’s corn is approved for commercial use, this will result in an increase in 2,4-D use. Yet, the USDA hasn’t conducted a thorough study of the harm to ecosystems, its effect on neighboring fields, or the evolution of 2,4-D-resistant weeds. Even though 2,4-D has a short half-life, it has been frequently discovered in surface water throughout the country and even in  in five states and parts of Canada. Studies have also determined that, even in its current limited usage, 2,4-D likely poses a danger to certain animal species, such as Pacific salmon, California red-legged frogs, and Alameda whip snakes. We can only imagine what the  if 2,4-D usage is expanded. This 2,4-D-resistant GE corn will also be engineered to have a resistance to glyphosate (the active ingredient in Roundup) and other herbicides, but there has been no meaningful analysis of these combinations and the potential dangers that could result.Why is this “Agent Orange” corn even being considered for approval? Dow is toting it as a solution to weeds, which have become glyphosate-resistant as a result of GE Roundup Ready crop systems. Studies indicate that we will likely be replacing one problem with another, instead creating weeds that are resistant to both glyphosate and 2,4-D. This will continue our “chemical arms race,” with farmers responding with increasingly toxic herbicidal cocktails, resulting in more pesticide pollution, more disease, and higher production costs. In fact, the only ones who will end up profiting are companies like Dow.    This is just one more reason to detoxify your body on regular basis!     
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.We need to ban this stuff…My ministers son, our youth minister, works for his family run landscaping business. He was working on a sprinkler system and didn’t know his client had recently sprayed the yard with a weed killer containing 24 D. He was laying on the grass to gain access and some water sprayed up into his face (eyes, mouth). He had a rash after but didn’t know why he got it. Later he ended up for wks in the hospital in great pain and doctors didn’t know what was going on. Turns out that he had been poisioned by 24D. He is in pain, some days so fatiqued he can’t move, has difficulty walking, has to wear dark glasses, and seems to have difficulty speaking…This is just what I observed the short time I saw him. I have been told its neurological and drs do not know if he will ever improve. He is a young father and family man. This stuff is very dangerous and needs to be banned!Pingback: ()Pingback: ()