There has been a lot of talk about the health benefits of flaxseed oil but many people don’t know exactly what it is and what it specifically does.Flax is a good source of plant ,  and other nutrients. It’s nutrient composition differs from that of other major oil seeds such as canola and sunflower. It’s important to get the facts straight to make the best choice when purchasing flaxseed oil.Flaxseed oil comes from the seeds of the flax plant. According to the Thomas Jefferson Agricultural Institute, a flax seed is about 40% oil by weight. Of this oil, 55% of it is omega-3 fatty acid.Flax is unique because, traditionally, the oil hasn’t been used much. The seed, however, has been used whole, cracked, or ground into flour then used in baked products. Flax has attracted nutritionists and those seeking a healthier diet because it has a high fiber content and it is rich in potassium. Flax is often sprinkled on breakfast cereals and salads and is found in some fruit juice drinks.After the oil is extracted from the flax seed, the “leftovers” are often fed to livestock. An interesting side note is that the use of whole flax seed as food for chickens has increased in recent years because of the omega-3 properties.There has been some confusion between these. Flax oil is also called linseed oil which is sold in hardware stores as varnish. Flaxseed and linseed are often used interchangeably but there is an important difference. North Americans use flaxseed to describe flax when used for human consumption and linseed to describe when it has been processed for industrial purposes.The “3” in Omega-3 refers to the major types of fatty acids that are ingested in foods and used by our body: alpha-linolenic acid (ALA), eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA). Once eaten, the human body converts ALA to EPA and DHA which are more readily used by the body. Omega-3 is an important component of almost all cell membranes; therefore, sufficient amounts of these fatty acids are necessary and need to be balanced to maintain good health.A Harvard study titled, “The Preventable Causes of Death in the United States: Comparative Risk Assessment of Dietary Lifestyle and Metabolic Risk Factors” revealed that an omega-3 deficiency causes an alarming 72,000-96,000 deaths annually. According to the Flax Council of Canada, there are numerous benefits of which omega-3 is at the top of the list. ALA (alpha-linolenic acid) constitutes 57% of the total fatty acids in flax, making flax the richest source of ALA in the North American diet. Every tablespoon of flaxseed oil contains 8 grams of ALA, and this is a polyunsaturated fatty acid.Flaxseed oil has been found to be beneficial for those who suffer from Crohn’s Disease and . Several studies have found that this oil seems to be able to calm the inner lining of the inflamed intestines. Another benefit exists as there is a high content of mucilage in flax and this is an effective . Flaxseed oil is beneficial in helping to reduce high cholesterol. It’s important to keep in mind however, that this alone cannot be totally effective in reducing cholesterol levels, an overhaul of overall diet must work in conjunction with flaxseed oil.The risk of heart disease is lower in individuals who take flaxseed oil. Evidence indicates that those who eat a lot of ALA are less likely to suffer a fatal heart attack and it reduces high blood pressure. Some people are afflicted with Sjogren’s syndrome, which is a dryness of the eyes. Flaxseed oil helps to improve this condition.Flaxseed oil also helps to:  Flaxseed oil is available in liquid and soft gel capsules. This oil requires special packaging because it is easily destroyed by heat, light and oxygen. Some forms of flaxseed oil may require refrigeration.There is a potential for side effects and interactions with medications or other . Flaxseed may slow down the rate your body absorbs oral medications or other nutrients if taken at the same time. It is highly advisable to seek the advice of a trained natural health practitioner before taking this supplement.It’s also important to know the source of the flaxseed oil because some plants grown today are not what they appear to be. There are lot of  that make their way into our homes and GE foods are not good for human consumption.  Natural flaxseed oil is packed with health benefits that you can’t go wrong with. A daily intake of this healthy oil offers a lot of goodness. Talk to a natural health specialist and make organic flaxseed oil a part of your daily regime. Is flaxseed oil part of your day? Let’s discuss, in the comments below! 
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.If taking flaxseeds heed the warning that it can interfere with other supplements as that happened to me.  I was taking a probiotic that I had taken for years and then after I started consuming flaxseeds my probiotic wasn’t working anymore.  I discovered it had to do with the mucilage in the flaxseed and it prevented my probiotic from doing it’s job in my colon and intestines, even though I was taking them hours apart from one another.  I take the oil now (it does not have whole or sliced seeds in it) and have no problems and my probiotic is working again like it used to.  Just know that the oil does not have the laxative effect like the seed itself does, unless of course the oil contains whole or sliced seeds, some flaxoils do, so read the label to be sure.  🙂Flaxseed and flaxseed oil is actually better to consume than fish oil.As you say, it is rich in ALA which the body converts into EPA and DHA and has none of the side effects and possible poisonous contamination found in fish.SarahI’m a huge fan of Flaxseeds, period. I spread them on my salad and the seeds actually make my otherwise plain (and boring) lettuce very flavorable. Plus there’s a natural laxative inherent in flaxseeds that are beneficial for your health. (But if you’re not used to eating flaxseeds, don’t go overboard on the serviing size. The laxative effect may be a bit MORE than you can take!)Hello, I found this article very interesting, especially because here in Brazil where I live, flaxseed is the watchword.I would like to have your permission to translate this article into Portuguese and publish it in my own blog, indicating where it was translated from.Kind regards,AngelyneFlaxseed oil is part of the Gerson Therapy diet.  Gerson found a cure for  cancer using his specific plant based diet and cured 50 cases.  I am a vegetarian bordering on vegan and take organic flaxseed oil daily (2 to 4 tablespoons).“Flax is very unique” something is unique or it is not it cannot be very!Hi! Just recently started researching flax as a supplement for a few reasons. Dry eyes, and inflammatory disease to name a few. Was not aware of the laxative effect, which I find beneficial. Is it more powerful that castor oil for that purpose? Purchased a dark refrigerated bottle of pure high lignan organic flaxseed oil today at my local heath food store. I plan on a tablespoon a day, served over some kind of salad. I also have recently purchased royal jelly with propolis, and I already take a probiotic, and grapefruit seed extract. Any advice on whether or not these are ok to mix, and should I be spacing them apart?I deal with excema, especially during the winter months. It got so bad one year that I was prescribed a Rx shampoo, mouse, and saline solution for my scalp. None worked that well and burned pretty bad. I started taking flax seed oil regularly and almost all my symptoms on my scalp disappeared. Love it!I took flax seed oil for about a year and ended up with elevated liver enzymes. It’s the only thing I changed in my diet. Other sites do not recommend this oil. Make sure you thoroughly research oils before using on a long term basis.“There are lot of genetically engineered plants that make their way into our homes and GE foods are not good for human consumption.”Tut, tut. GE food has not been proven to be either good or bad to human health, and such an unfounded statement is not helpful to anybody. Clearly, the good doctor has an agenda here.Greenjacket,
Thank you for your post!  While studies on GMOs are lacking, most of this is because Mansanto will not grant the testing of the seeds they produce.  However, we are starting to see smaller studies that show the issues with GMO foods, one such study can be found here: I think that the other aspect to remember is that the GMO seeds will not activate with out the use of pesticides that are typically supplied by the same company that makes the seeds.  Pesticides that are used on crops are Highly Toxic to human health, these two factors are enough for most to reconsider the stance on GMO foods, especially since the FDA has not completed any long term studies themselves.  The question is, whats wrong with natural home grown seeds? and why do we NEED GMO?  I hope that this helps, take care and be well! would flaxseed oil interfere with absorption of the pill? Im trying to clear up acne with the pill but is there a chance that me also taking flax seed oil stops the pill helping my skin?hey Dr i have a problem of constipation, since i used flax oil , i don’t constipate any more i am so happy thanksIt is for me but it tastes AWFUL lol…For the last few months I have taken a combination of flaxseed oil, CO-Q10 and L-Carnitine and have never felt better. I feel healthy and full of energy!  Really works for me!I have bought Flaxseed oil as it is recommended as a cancer help prevention, but having had breast removed & informed this is hormone related have understood I should not take B6. This is in the oil I have now bought. Please tell me if I should or not take it daily?Am very confused with many differing diets that are recommended on the net as ‘cancer cell stopping/killing’ effects.
Can you please help suggest links I can trust so I know what to avoid & what I can eat safely?As u know dr there are lots of fake site are available ,so it is not very easy to trust on you or on your products…………….in this condition how a working person men/women can maintain his/her health even in the condition of obesity,although i did not use your product…as i n related to the medicine,and as i concern with my knowledge no medicine is available to reduce fat or reduce size of the body except physical exercise…so please suggest to me how can reduce my body size and weight tooi have what i consider to be a mild problem with excema. knowing that this condition is caused from the candida fungus found in the human body being fed too much sugar, i have tried very hard to watch my intake of carbs, yeast and sugar trying not to feed the fungus. i started to take the flaxseed oil, 1000mg, 2 softgels daily with food and a few days after starting the flaxseed oil the excema really flared up bad. a large patch on my foot, both forearms, back and mildly on my stomach areas. did the flaxseed oil cause the flare up due to maybe hurting the fungus growth or control?can flax seed oil capsules help with goutThat could be really hard to say, L.V. What else does your diet consist of? Do you eat only organic and GMO free foods? Are you exposed to other environmental toxins that could be throwing your system off balance? These are all factors that I’d personally take a look at. Have you ever performed a body cleanse?
-Dr. Edward groupI wish there were a database that easily separated those into “junk” and “worthwhile” categories. The thing is, many diets are just a new name for an old idea. It’s best to educate yourself about nutrition and, in short, stick to whole foods that aren’t prepackaged and made with unnatural ingredients.
-Dr. Edward GroupSounds very specific to your personal situation, Terri. You may want to ask your primary healthcare provider who is aware of the nuances of your health.
-Dr. Edward GroupI had perionditis and terrible gums for over 20 years. I recently bought some flax oil(the healthiest version – organic cold pressed virgin oil) from the supermarket because it was going cheap – for no other reason than that. Within 2 days of drinking a few capfuls morning and night my gums are almost HEALED UP!. I can bite down (hard) on my teeth for the first time in so many years its like some kind of miracle that I dont understand.I keep going back to my dentist just to show him what is happening lol. He too is amazed. The strangest thing is I stopped brushing my teeth (too scared to upset whatevers happening) and my dentist says my plaque is building up but my gums are getting healthier and healthier regenerating and growing every day :). So much for plaque causing gum disease maybe? The strange thing is I had fish oils and all other kind of oils in the past and none of them ever made a blind bit of difference to anything . My dentist says It could be that the particular flax oil I bought was “cold pressed, organic, virgin oil” which is probably the bees knees in the world of flax oil I suppose. I’ve been told that because its completely unprocessed you have to keep it refrigerated or it will go off very quickly. Sorry this post is so long but I have to get this out maybe it will help someone else pls GodThe way the oil is processed is not healthy but there is nothing wrong with flaxseeds. The best way to take flaxseeds is in it’s whole food form. one or two tablespoons in coffee grinder then in your vegetable juice or protein in the morning is fine. The ground flax has liver protecting lignans, vitamins and minerals that the oil does not have and the oil is processed with acids and chemicals which was probably stressing your liver. At only $2 for a 2 month supply, whole flax can eliminate the need to take expensive multivitamin supplements because of the trace mineral content. Keep in mind that you might have been reacting to the fact the the oil is a processed food! Whole, ground flaxseed is a food not a supplement. Also, keep in mind that if you purchase preground flaxseed you are purchasing a highly oxidized product. Same with fish oil. Best thing is to just eat the damned fish. It’s always best to just stick with whole foods.Damned fish- LOL.  Good advice that I will try.  Flaxseed oil supplement has given me no relief from hot flashes.  I will try your advice and grind fresh.  Also will eat my damned fish.  Thanks.‘Promensil’ (Red Clover) and ‘Remifemin’ (Cohosh etc) are amazing for flashes/menopausal symptoms…I have a tablespoon of flax seed oil every day blended with cottage cheese. Not only has it made my acne spots disappear but it also helps keep mild anxiety which I suffer from, at bay.I’ve taken organic, cold-pressed flaxseed oil now for 9 months, and I’ve lost 90 pounds. Coupled with a complete overhaul on what and how I eat food has helped in this endeavor. I highly recommend taking organic flaxseed oil gel capsules.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()It depends. If you are allergic to the mercury and other pollutants contained in fish these days then the liquid flax oil and the cod liver oil capsules do the job. Not everyone can eat fish yet still is after the nutritional aspects of these needed oils.Good for you. Also, for gums a few drops of oil of oregano also fixes the problem. You just put the oil on your fingertip & apply to the gum area. Between the flax oil and perhaps some oil of oregano, yes, it is totally possible to heal your gums.Just rinse your mouth out with clear water after you swallow the flax oil. No big deal.Pingback: ()Just researching flaxseed today in 2015 so that’s why I’m commenting 2 yrs. after this article. Wanted to echo jomo about flaxseed, ground vs. flaxseed oil in quoting a recent article by webmd “Many experts believe it’s better to consume flaxseed than flax oil (which contains just part of the seed) so you get all the components. But stay tuned as researchers continue to investigate.” The article also said a common coffee grinder can be used to grind flaxseed. Any other suggestions welcome.i just purchase organic Arrowhead Mills flax seeds.  did not know how to use it. tried putting on cereal the seeds were not eatable. boiled water and cook some strained it. what i got was like a gel. i got one tsp  and put it on my oatmeal  and ate the oatmeal. is this a correct way? does it have benefits. or should i just do away with the seeds.what is your opinion on this. Any suggestion ?See My comment just below this one. Flaxseed, the seeds, should be ground before putting on food. I guy mine already ground. You can grind them yourself but you need a grinder to do it. Again, see my comment of a month ago just below this one for more information.Where did you hear that?Pingback: ()Hello
how r u all
I’m jay
I’m juz 28 year old
can I tk ths flax seed oil like normal for health I’ve been taking Organic-Cold Pressed Flax Seed and Coconut Oils interchangeably, for 2-3 yrs. They’re the only source of ORGANIC COLD PRESSED SEED OILS that relieve my hot flashes. In amounts from 2-3 Tbsp, sometimes once daily, sometimes twice daily.can you use flaxseed oil in coffeeI guess you could add it in there if you don’t mind the taste alteration.Then you go right ahead and eat it, meanwhile I will consume the same foods that humans have for hundreds and thousands of years. only have one life one body –what if your wrong ? is that worth saving a few dollars ? what use is money if your dead ? there are no long term studies. in fact your one of the lab rats. enjoy !Pingback: ()Is someone aware if flaxseed oil can help shrink fibroids? Thanks for your help! i am using one table spoon first thing in the morning from last 15 days and i can run now for 3 min regularly before that  i use to walk with pain in the knee . i believe it miracle for me i am 48 years old lady.I  have been taking flaxseed oil for about two months now. I have noticed that my fingernails have started to grow. For years and years they have been paper thin and brittle, and I could never grow them past 1/8″. They were so terrible, I couldn’t even polish them, and besides the vanity side of it, it was painful when one would break down to the quick, and that happened almost every week. I use a computer. Working was painful because of my nails. Now I notice that they are all the same length, all on their own, and I have not had a broken nail in about two weeks now. Phenomenal. I have asked doctors about a cure for thin nails for years, but never got a satisfactory answer. I had given up. Now I am convinced that the flaxseed oil is doing it. Also, I have noticed that my regular hot flashes are much diminished. I am glad I read this info on side effects, because I was not aware you should not take flaxseed oil with Motrin. Now that I know that, I won’t. But I consider this a wonderful thing. I still don’t quite trust it, but I am optimistic I may have found a perfect natural remedy for a longtime health problem.I’ve been doing this every morning for a few weeks now and I really enjoy it. I started by adding butter and have since switched to flax oil. My one concern is that flax loses something when heated but I don’t know if the few minutes in hot coffee affect it?Can flax seed oil help the breathing as wellEat Cherries… the antioxidants in cherries clears up gout flare-ups. Try it and you’ll be amazed.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()I use Flaxseed oil. Its amazing. I get organic variety (cold pressed)
You can use them up in these:
– Simple wholewheat toasts with cheese (low fat variety)
– In salads
please make sure to use it generously. Its good fat. About a cuple of teaspoons wouldn’t harm.
It remarkably brings down triglycerides.
You can also get flaxseeds and add in your salads. but i recommend the organic, cold-pressed oil more.Not an expert, BUT some 30 years ago I was reading a monthly woman’s health newsletter from Harvard about the same time I had just gone through a couple of hot flashes.  They had done a research study on Korean Ginseng and had found that it bound to T-cells the same way estrogen did.  I didn’t want to do HRT, so I took about 800mg a day of Korean Ginseng for the next 4 or 5 years.  Seemed to help, I didn’t have any more hot flashes.  Didn’t have a lot of them before I started taking it, they were mild, but I didn’t have any after I started taking it.  Just my experience.  Good luckIs flaxseed oil helpful for someone with lupus?I’m taking 2 1000mg flaxseed oil capsules, 2 1500mg vitamin C,  and 2 B complex tablets, daily. Should I be worried about any negative interactions?  I was prescribed flaxseed oil for asthmatic symptoms by a naturopath. After I had an episode of vaginal dermatitis, in desperation I decided to start taking the flaxseed oil again. I take on tablespoon every day but now I’m worried with all of the mixed reviews.Pingback: ()I am taking flax see oil in liquid form.. And I also take gnc vitamin pills along with gnc hair skin and nails . Will this have a negative reaction on my body.Flaxseed oil tastes bitter. Is this the natural taste of flax or the oil has gone rancid? Well the bottle was well packed!
Is this safe to consume?I have read that the body does not break down whole flax seeds very well and most of them go right on through and out, which is why whole flax seed is a good laxative.  If you grind them up in a coffee grinder and eat freshly ground seed, you won’t have to worry about rancidity and your body will absorb all the beneficial nutrients from it.J, I’m curious did you consume the flax seeds whole or did you grind them first? I’ve read that if you eat them whole, they act as a laxative because your body doesn’t break them down and therefore won’t absorb the nutrients.  I grind mine fresh in a coffee grinder and don’t have that problem.  Thanks,
LPingback: ()Great article except for 1 statement…”There are lot of genetically engineered plants that make their way into our homes and GE foods are not good for human consumption”. Absolute, pseudoscience nonsense.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()We process flaxseeds at our facility and we add NO acids or chemicals..Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()I think it depends on the quality and processing of the oil. A high quality oil that is cold-pressed, no chemicals should actually benefit your liver. It’s part of the Budwig protocol diet for cancer.I’m wondering–Did you have digestive problems before taking this mixture?Pingback: ()I started using the program on  and I have never looked or felt so good! I lost 18 pounds within the first month because the smoothies help me burn extra calories and stay physically fit!! By drinking this smoothie first thing in the morning, the ingredients supercharge my metabolic rate. They are loaded with nutrients that will have a detoxifying effect on a person’s body and help people erase off fat burning hormones. Smoothie Detox has made me feel so great about myself! After losing 25 pounds with this program, I’m a healthy weight once again!Quick tip: I started using the program on  and I have never looked or felt so good! I lost 10 pounds within the first month because the smoothies help me burn extra calories and stay physically fit!! By drinking this smoothie first thing in the morning, the ingredients supercharge my metabolic rate. They are loaded with nutrients that will have a detoxifying effect on a person’s body and help people erase off fat burning hormones. Smoothie Detox has made me feel so great about myself! After losing 25 pounds with this program, I’m a healthy weight once again!Please someone suggest me,Would it benificial  for high cholesterol ?I thought the Budwig diet used flaxseed oil with cottage cheese. Are you  sure that the Gerson Therapy use it, too?Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Where is this location?I was told if your oil tastes bitter it has gone bad. Mine has a very light nutty flavor. I use Barlean’s cold pressed and refrigerate it after I open it.I have been taking CoQ10 and Barleans Organic Flaxseed for a week. I can tell the difference.  I’m not stiff when I rise in the mornings and I do have more energy than before.   Also for the past year I also drink a 1/2 cup of Aloe Juice a day and Emergen-C Immune Plus supplements (Vitamin c, d, and b.  The Aloe Vera Juice helped some with my Stomach Woes.  And I think the Immune Plus was helping me ward off colds.  I didn’t have one last year.  But I don’t know for sure. (MY QUESTION IS HOW DO YOU TAKE THE FLAXSEED OIL)  I’VE BEEN PUTTING A TABLESPOON IN A SMALL CONTAINER AND MIXING WITH ABOUT 2 TABLESPOONS OF JUICE.  I TAKE IT WITH THE COQ10 AND THE SAME TIME.  I HAVE TO HOLD MY BREATH TO GET IT DOWN AND FOLLOWUP IMMEDIATELY WITH MORE JUICE.  I UNDERSTAND YOU CANNOT HEAT THE FLAXOIL AS IT WILL BECOME RANCID.  i THOUGHT INITIALLY TO DISSOLVE THE SOFTGEL IN THE FLAXOILHow do you ingest it.  Do you mix it with something or taking straight out of the TBSPI emulsify 1 tablespoon with 2 tablespoons of cottage cheese. It takes a minute and looks like a yogurt. Then add fruit or nuts – whatever you like but no sugar.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()You should take flaxseed oil blended with cottage or quark cheese, as it makes the oil hydrosoluble and easy to circulate in the body. Check the dra Budwig protocol.Pingback: ()I mix (2)  tbs of flaxseed oil in a couple of scoops of cottage cheese,  sprinkle  it with mrs dash, tony’s &  mix in some chunks of avocado then I mix that into my salad and use it as a salad dressing.  yummmmmmmmmI mix (2) tbs of flaxseed oil in a couple of scoops of cottage cheese, sprinkle it with mrs dash, tony’s & mix in some chunks of avocado then I mix that into my salad and use it as a salad dressing. yummmmPingback: ()And zero research to back it up. The power of placebo is amazing – and there’s nothing wrong with that!Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Hi…Have you continued this procedure..and is it still working?
ThanksYou don’t take probiotics for “years”. Probiotics are to help restore your original colonic flora and fauna decimated by yeast, sugar, alcohol, chemicals etc. Once you reach a level of comfort you stop. You were abusing a good thing it seems.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()I read somewhere that consuming 1 tablespoon of flaxseed oil daily helped a person get rid of psoriasis. Is it possible?