    Most kitchen cupboards in the United States probably contain a box of iodized salt. Most salts sold in supermarkets display on the label,  But do you know why the iodine in salt is added?    Tiny amounts of several different iodine-containing salts are added to  since the common American diet provides very little. Iodized Salt can be damaging though.            
				
				  Iodine was added to salt around 1924, at the request of government initiatives, due to the growing need for regulation of  disorders. In the 1920’s era in the United States, the Great Lakes and Pacific Northwest region of the country experienced high incidences of goiter (a common thyroid-malfunction-based condition). This was because their soil levels were extremely low in iodine, and people weren’t eating .    Researchers at the University of Michigan decided to copy a Swiss practice of adding iodine to cooking salt, in order to attempt to remedy the problem. Goiter occurrences dropped drastically as a result, and the practice soon became standard .In fact, due to the successes seen in Michigan, iodine-enhanced salts were sold by the Morton Salt Company for the first time, on a national scale. Regulations committees saw that it would be easy to take a simple and cost-effective measure to prevent this health imbalance, and for about $0.05 per person per year, salt became iodized.Salt was used as the carrier for iodine because it was an easy, spoil-free method of getting iodine into the food chain. Salt is a food that almost everyone eats throughout the day, and every day. Iodized salt was also added to animal feed, as it also offered thyroid support benefits for livestock as well.    Things have changed since the 1920’s with the manufacturing of toxic chemicals and more cost effective ways of harvesting salt. Most of the salt harvested then was natural salt from the sea or from natural salt deposits and contained the beneficial trace mineral iodine.    Table Salt or “Iodized Salt” is not a healthy naturally occurring rock, crystal or sea salt. It is a manufactured type of sodium called sodium chloride with added iodide.   Iodine in salt available at grocery stores, restaurants and in practically all processed foods, have synthetic chemicals added to them. These chemicals may include manufactured forms of iodide, sodium solo-co-aluminate, fluoride sodium bicarbonate, toxic amounts of , anti-caking agents and aluminium derivatives. Unfortunately, most table salt is not only unhealthy but is toxic to the body and should never be considered as a source of healthy iodine.Salt found in nature is not usually white it is pink in color such as  which is harvested in pristine mountains and naturally dried in the sun.Of course, we need this iodine because the  requires it for making thyroxine and triiodothyronine, two key hormones for metabolic function. Commonly used forms of iodine include potassium iodate, potassium iodine, sodium iodate and sodium iodine. Each of these forms of iodine offers the body the needed T4 and T3 hormones by the thyroid gland.Using iodine-fortified table salt may still put you at risk for micronutrient deficiencies. A study done at the University in Texas at Arlington, and published in the American Chemical Society journal Environmental Science and Technology, found that salt alone cannot prevent iodine deficiency .    The research looked into iodine levels in over 80 types of commonly-sold iodized salt brands, and found that 47 of them (over half!) did not meet the U.S. Food and Drug Administration’s recommendation for healthy iodine levels. Moreover, with time, iodine levels tend to decrease in salt products that are left in humid conditions. The study concluded that only about 20% of the so-called “iodized” salt sold in stores has enough of the micronutrient to be considered enough for daily level acquisition.  
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.one of the problems with bromine for example, is that the organ cells with receptors for iodine will also accept bromine, etc. so trying to compensate with additional iodine will not succeed until the receptors are free to accept the iodine. This means reducing our intake of the “poisons” so that the iodine we do get can actually be used.just wondering – If floride and chlorine are iodine killers and sufficient iodine is needed to stave off the possibility of some forms of mental retardation does it not follow that municipal water supplies, if treated with the 2 chemicals mentioned, are harming developing children? I’d be interested in a response…I use a salt substitute alternative  “No Salt”, potassium chloride. Am I getting the necessary iodine?Do people believe this stuff? Sodium chloride = NaCl. Iodine is an element, otherwise known as I. I make my salt at home with sodium metal and chlorine gas, then add a just little bit of iodine crystal. I don’t want my salt fooled around with by some Tibet businessmen on the other side of the world. If you want to be safer you should dissolve your salt in distilled water and carefully re-crystalize it under controlled conditions.I skimmed through the article and cannot find any recommendations for what to use. Something from the health food store? Any names?Thank you.No.  You are not getting ANY Iodine unless it is listed on the label.
Take kelp tablets or add a piece of kelp to all soups, stews and grains/beans that you cook.Himalayan pink salt has unacceptably high levels of fluoride.  Find another source.“Believe it or not, Iodized table salt is created by taking natural salt (or crude oil flake leftovers) and heating it at 1200° Fahrenheit.”Ok, not. Heating natural salt will in no way add Iodine, Potassium, or any other chemicals. Why would a company spend money on huge furnaces to bake salt, when *washing* the salt not only works better, it doesn’t require massive (and expensive) energy usage?“Shockingly, crude oil extract is one way we produce table salt.”The only thing shocking here is how the author passed organic chem.What is your proof of this?@Snoway:  Without showing any citations as to why the author is wrong, you are in the same boat as he is.. Not-credible.@M_aster:  Just like everybody else in these comments, you criticize the article without issuing any citations as to WHY it is wrong.  Without any citations or references, you are in the same boat as the author — Not-Credible.Fluoride effects every organ of the body. Government dirty secrets- It makes your bones weak. On top of that if you get mercury in your system it will cause brain damage. They younger you are the worse the damage. Hitler was known for using fluoride to control the soldiers.You may either use Dr. before your name or your degrees after your name but not both together.affects not effects.Pingback: ()My mouth has been swelling up for 4 months now.  Doctor says the iodine in salt is what causes this. Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Ok so im no chemist but to me this article is total bullshit there’s very little proof of that the statement is true. It even says a bunch of positives about iodine at the top of the article. this is written by a celebrity “health expert” and that’s usually a bad sign plus the fact that iodine when in a stable compound wont hurt you. The fact is that iodine in salt helps millions of people world wide and no one is keeling over because they had iodized salt and im just confused why people would want to go and avoid something just because some stupid “heath expert” said so.  Seriously why?Hitler was known for using propaganda, authoritarianism and fear to control his soldiers.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()how toxic is a table salt that has 30% iodine and 10% fluor plus e 535, do you accumulate this in your body?
let me know,, thanksPingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()