Probiotics are beneficial forms of gut bacteria that help stimulate the natural enzymes and processes that keep our digestive organs functioning properly. For these live bacteria to keep you healthy, you have to keep them healthy. There are two ways to do this, and I recommend a combination of both—take  and eat probiotic foods.We all know the great , however, not all of us know how to take advantage of these health benefits. Below is a list I put together to outline the best probiotic foods for you to add to your diet. I would also recommend buying the organic version of all these probiotic-rich foods.Probiotic Foods to Add to Your DietLength: 5 minutesOne of the best probiotic foods is live-cultured yogurt, especially handmade. Look for brands made from  and infused with extra forms of probiotics like lactobacillus or acidophilus. Goat’s milk is a rich source of proteins, vitamins, and minerals while having better digestibility and lower allergenicity than cow’s milk. Goat milk yogurt is particularly high in probiotics like thermophillus, bifudus, and bulgaricus, and can be infused with extra forms of probiotics like lactobacillus or acidophilus.Be sure to read the ingredients list, as not all yogurt is made equally. Many popular brands are filled with , , and artificial flavors and are way too close to being a nutritional equivalent of sugary, fatty ice cream.Similar to yogurt, this fermented dairy product is a unique combination of goat’s milk and fermented kefir grains. High in lactobacilli and bifidus bacteria, kefir is also rich in . Look for a good, organic version at your local health food shop.Similar to yogurt, this fermented dairy product is a unique combination of goat’s milk and fermented kefir grains. High in lactobacilli and bifidus bacteria, kefir is also rich in . Look for a good, organic version at your local health food shop.Made from fermented cabbage (and sometimes other vegetables), sauerkraut is not only extremely rich in healthy live cultures, but might also help with reducing allergy symptoms. Sauerkraut is also rich in vitamins A, B, C, and K.Chocolate itself doesn’t contain probiotics, but it was found to be a very effective carrier for probiotics. Chocolate helps them survive the extreme pHs of the digestive tract to make it to the colon. Because of this protective ability probiotics can be added to high-quality dark chocolate. This is only one of the many .This refers to super-food ocean-based plants such as spirulina, chlorella, and blue-green algae. While not a probiotic itself, microalgae can act as a prebiotic, which means that it feeds and nourishes the probiotics already in your gut. These prebiotic foods have been shown to increase beneficial bacteria and improve gastrointestinal health. They also offer the most amount of energetic return, per ounce, for the human system.Miso is one the mainstays of traditional Japanese medicine and is commonly used in macrobiotic cooking as a digestive regulator. Made from fermented rye, beans, rice or barley, adding a tablespoon of miso to some hot water makes an excellent, quick, probiotic-rich soup, full of lactobacilli and bifidus bacteria.Beyond its important live cultures, miso is extremely nutrient-dense and believed to help neutralize the effects of environmental pollution, alkalinize the body and stop the effects of carcinogens in the system.Believe it or not, the provincial pickle packs a punch of prime probiotics. In the U.S., the term “pickle” usually refers to pickled cucumbers specifically, but most vegetables can be pickled. All of them boast the same briny goodness and probiotic potential.A great substitute for meat or tofu, tempeh is a fermented, probiotic-rich grain made from soybeans. A great source of vitamin B12, this vegetarian food can be sauteed, baked or eaten crumbled on salads. If prepared correctly, tempeh is also very low in salt, which makes it an ideal choice for those on a low-sodium diet.An Asian form of pickled sauerkraut, kimchi is an extremely spicy and sour fermented cabbage, typically served alongside meals in Korea. Besides beneficial bacteria, Kimchi is also a great source of vitamin C, B vitamins, beta-carotene, , iron, potassium, and dietary fiber. Kimchi is one of the best probiotic foods you can add to your diet, assuming you can handle the spice, of course. that contains a high amount of healthy gut bacteria. This probiotic drink has been used for centuries and is believed to help increase your energy, enhance your well-being and maybe even help you lose weight. However, kombucha tea may not be the best fit for everyone, especially those that have had problems with candida.For excellent digestive health, fill your diet with as many prebiotic and probiotic foods as possible. I additionally recommend taking a good probiotic supplement. I recommend , a unique formula of 23 probiotic strains that helps support your digestive tract and boosts your immune system.Do you have any favorite foods with probiotics that I may have missed? Leave a comment below!
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.Great list with a few I wasn’t aware of. More reasons to eat chocolate? Cool! 🙂I continually hear great things about the benefits of Miso Soup. I didn’t like it at first but the taste is growing on me…This list is a bit misleading on the veggies…you DON’T want pickled sauerkraut, cucumbers/pickles, kimchi etc… you want CULTURED. “pickled” means it has been soaked in vinegar. No probiotics there.If you aren’t going to make your own with a cultured starter or whey and let it ferment.Great list of probiotic foods. I need to add some of these to my diet.  I love dark chocolate, so maybe i’ll just eat more of that.   🙂This is a very timely list for me. I was just talking to my sister about why we needed to get more probiotics in our diet. She can’t afford a daily probiotic supplement, because she is on a fixed diet. But I’m hoping we can both get the same benefits through our diet.  Thanks for the list of probiotic foods!WOW. I never knew that there were foods with probiotics in them., besides yogurt. I eat yogurt every morning to get the beneficial bacteria in my system, because I can’t afford a probiotic supplement. This list of probiotic foods is very helpful for me. Thanks!Pickles and sauerkraut are good ONLY if you make them yourself or get the expensive variety at the health food store. The modern methods of manufacturing are not at all the same as the traditional methods.Kimchi, on the other hand, I have bought from Walmart, and it has obviously been made the traditional way, because the jar is in danger of breaking it’s seal if you leave it too long…obviously (good) live bacteria in there. Of course, if Kimchi ever became popular enough to become a mass food, they’d do the same thing to it that they do to pickles and sauerkraut.Comprehensive list! I would add that homemade sauerkraut is easy to make and vastly superior to shop bought (and you can add whatever takes your fancy!), and homemade kefir can be successfully made with organic cow’s milk. So nice to add probiotics to the many advantages of eating raw cacao.can you list a source for your claim that chocolate contains probiotics?Hi Sharon,Check these out:  Thanks!-Dr. GI recently made cheese and have a ton of whey left over. Does this contain probiotics and other healthy nutrients? I did heat the milk to 145 degrees F for 30 minutes. Thanks for the list!My son as high allergies to diary products – What would be good probiotic substitute to yougurt and kefir? Thanks in advanceOther probiotic foods would be Kombucha.. which is wonderful, it creates probiotics as well as anti tumor and anti cancer properties! You can make this yourself in large food grade glass containers 🙂And there’s also Sour Poi. If you can get taro then you can make poi and you wanna let it sit for a few days or a week or month and keep it in a jar able to breath without anything being able to get in and contaminate including fruit flies that like to lay eggs in poi x.x Make sure there’s a thin layer of water on top to keep it from drying out. Sour poi is amazing for repairing the digestion as well as your DNA 🙂 Make sure the taro or poi you get is non-GMO and organic, this is very important. GMO’s mutate and destroy our DNA and non organic foods are heavily pesticided so your poi won’t be as beneficial if it were tainted in this way.~Aloha <3Miso soup, probiotic supplements (maybe greens supplements, if chlorella, etc. work? Those can taste good.), or fermented vegetables like sauerkraut and kimchi (can be thrown into many dishes/meals creatively) are quite good.Actually unsure if miso and microalgaes actually has probiotics from my own research – just took that from above. 🙂Miso soup, probiotic supplements (maybe greens supplements, if chlorella, etc. work? Those can taste good.), or fermented vegetables like sauerkraut and kimchi (can be thrown into many dishes/meals creatively) are quite good.Unsure if miso and microalgaes actually has probiotics from my own research – just took that from above. 🙂Hi really enjoyed reading your post.
I was actually researching something else. When sauerkraut mase from fermented cabbage came up so I thought I would have a look. I have never tasted sauerkraut and one I know what it is made from not sure I want to. But one thing I do like the taste of is dark chocolate. Never even considered that it would be in a top 10 for probiotics. So now I can enjoy the taste and get a benefit as well. Not many food stuffs give you thatSo thanks again very informative.Clarifying a misconception about tempeh and B12:Tempeh, miso, sea vegetables, and other plant foods are sometimes reported to contain vitamin B12. These products, however, are not reliable sources of the vitamin. The standard method for measuring vitamin B12 in foods measures both active and inactive forms of vitamin B12. The inactive form (also called analogues) actually interferes with normal vitamin B12 absorption and metabolism. When only active vitamin B12 is measured, plant foods including fermented soyfoods and sea vegetables do not contain significant amounts of active vitamin B12.Sources:
Herbert V. Vitamin B12: Plant sources, requirements, and assay. Am j clin nutr 1988;48:852-858.Van den Berg H, Dagnelie PC, van Staveren WA. Vitamin B12 and seaweed. Lancet 1988;1:242-3.I would also like a source.
Please do not eat chocolate as a health food! Even with its beneficial phytonutrients, it is still high in saturated fat.  Eat it for pleasure, not for health.It would be much bettwr if some one could suggest Indian food or supplements to understand better.hi
unlike most of you, i am trying to avoid lactobacilli as i have an overgrowth of this. can you tell me what foods to avoid eating? i eat a lot of cheddar cheese but can not find if this is high in lb or not. should i avoid this as well?
thxI love kefir, but since I am now vegan, I am looking into trying to make coconut kefir. I just found out that fermented foods are higher in histamines, which can produce symptoms similar to allergies if their levels are too high. Since my wife has been having terrible allergies, I am worried that fermented food would only make it worse for her.You wrote about kefir: “this fermented dairy product is a unique combination of goat milk and fermented grains”.Your wording is going to confuse and mislead people.
The fermentation agent is called “kefir grains”, but there is no actual  grain used. Kefir can be made with most any kind of milk, not just goat milk.  You don’t seem very familiar with the subject.Kefir offers a broader spectrum of probiotics than yogurt.
One’s gut can be reseeded using kefir, but not using yogurt.Anyone know if soy yogurt has the same benefits for iodine since I am supposed to avoid dairy?Well it’s a good thing saturated fat is good for you than. Not saying chocolate is healthy, but vilifying saturated fats is absolutely ridiculous. Do the store-bought versions of foods such as pickles and sauerkraut contain probiotcs?  I thought these were considered “dead” and only homemade were considered “live” ?How much kimchi should I eat each day? I intend to use it now as part of my daily diet.Pickled corn on the cob or pickled beans strait from the crock.If you cook fermented foods it kills the good bacteria in it.Raw fermented foods are the best.I recently started eating kimchi three times a day, and am now eating all the foods I had to avoid because they gave me hemorrhoids (chocolate, processed foods, spicy food, fried food, etc., etc.)Also, a great way to eat miso is mixed with vinegar as sumiso. You just put a bit of miso in a small dish, add some vinegar and mix. Then eat as a dipping sauce with raw vegetables.Soy has been found to block the absorption of iodine because it has receptors that fit iodine’s in the thyroid, female breasts, ovaries and the prostate glands as well as several other glandular systems..  Coupled with perchlorate that is found in many rocket fuels that has now spread around the entire planet and is in the air and soil of everywhere, soy in any form should be strenuously avoided. Orientals eat so much seafood and soy that they manage to absorb the bare minimum of iodine to survive, but inland orientals who eat soy and no seafood plants or animals have all of the serious deleterious effects of iodine deficiency.Bromine is another chemical that fits iodine receptors and for some unknown reason, it has replaced iodine as a flour processing agent and is in all of our bread, cereal and flour based confections. This has been quite possibly the worst thing our nation has done for the public health. The use of bromine in flour production should be immediately outlawed as a severe public health danger and iodine should be used as soon as possibly.Conditions like diabetes, autism and another dozen including preventable breast and prostate cancers have exploded since flour manufacturers began substituting bromine for iodine. Write the FDA about this and help to get this changed. We appear to be eating more than enough iodine since it is fed to livestock and its in our table salt, but eating flour products like bread negates much of the iodides we eat daily and many of us suffer from mild to moderate iodine deficiency as a result and this is a serious growing health disaster.Once last thing. Half of iodine in a child bearing mother resides in their breasts. This is where infants get their iodine while breast feeding. Infants who get insufficient iodine in the womb or as an infant can grow fifteen to twenty IQ points dumber.  If your child was normally destined to have a mean IQ of 100 then he or she will end up little smarter than Forest Gump and I doubt if they will have his exceptional luck. Lack of iodine in the diet is the leading cause of mental retardation in the world and even in the first world nations its lack contributes to the dumbing down of our populations. Take this seriously folks and actively eat foods that contain iodine and the avoid the ones that block its intake like all soy products and all bread flours treated with bromine. Modern medicine started in the 1700s when a French doctor successfully treated goiters with soluble iodine. It was the first disease successfully treated as a mineral deficiency. We can turn this around. Write the FDA!I had heard that cheese curds are high in both probiotics as well as Vit. K2….is that your understanding as well?“Orientals?”  Really?What’s a matter with that description Jack, not PC enough for you? Just like a liberal to drag a political argument into a health forum. Geez Louise the lunacy never ends.It’s racist, no just “not PC” please use the term Asians when referring to people of the East, it’s utterly offensiveSorry, I am sure you meant no offense in your term…it is more of a time we grew up thing.  It was once explained to me simply as Oriental is a thing (Vase) and Asian refers to people.  Have a good day.This is all wrong kefir and yogurt is a horrible way to get probiotics. In fact it shouldn’t be consumed at all unless eaten raw organic dairy which is better than all that pasteurized stuff.No only un-fermented soy can cause issues, eating fermented soy, non GMO of course or organic such as miso, tempeh, natto is a better alternative and is in fact healthy. (I didnt feel like reading your whole thing so sorry if it didn’t go good with what you stated.)Oriental means “Easterner” Occidental means ‘Westerner.” So if I call someone from the East Coast or New England a Easterner or North Easterner then its a racial ephithet.  Some of you are truly sad, blaming everything on whites while claiming victimhood. This is what America has devolved into. I for one will be glad when the entire insane thing breaks down and we can start over sanely. Bye little Oriental, this Occidental won’t be responding anymore to your low self-esteem posts.People who get salmonella are never really the same. I’ve seen people recover from dengue fever that had fewer long lasting effects than salmonella. Pasteurization kills salmonella completely. If you want to take the risk then do so, but don’t suggest the same to others without pointing out the substantial risk involved. I really hope you never have to suffer the 24 hours of constant vomiting and diarrhea that the infected suffer. Mental and physical effects of that will diminish you for the rest of your life and I am not talking about the memories of it.All forms of soy including fermented soy fit the same iodine receptors all over the body. If you are going to eat soy products then take your water soluble iodine source at least a half hour before eating the soy. The receptors will fill up with iodine as they are supposed to and the other ones won’t be. That also goes for anything made of flour, oats, and foods with bromine or fluorine.  Take your water soluble iodine the very first thing in the morning and wait a half hour before eating else.Oriental is basically the same thing as Negro. Get with the program you old white racist.Since when its been the same you little Progressive hater. Everyone’s a victim of white males right? Eff you.Isn’t MOST soy also GM?I heard the other night on Coast to Coast that GMO crops now have reached 85% of all the crops in America. Monsanto, George Soros and Bill Gates are all behind the chemtrail spraying. There are now also large ships that have 500 miles long chemtrails and they sail under the various jetstreams. These are visible on the NASA satellite feeds. Go on line and look at the Pacific and see them for yourself.Oceanographers have been begging our  government to stop the chemtrail spraying because the aluminum oxide, strontium and barium sprayed are responsible for the acidification of the oceans. This acidification has been dissolving the limestone that covers massive amounts of methane along the world’s continental shelves. Oceanographers are saying that the methane will raise the world’s temperatures to over 150 degrees. In thirty years the world will be sterile except for burrowing animals. This will be the same extinction event that killed off life that resulted in the rise of the saurians.The government told them three weeks ago they  were going to use Tesla’s HAARP weather control/weapon to burn off the methane.  The strange explosions reported all over the continent late at night the last several weeks may be just that. Still Monsanto is the most evil corporation on the planet and they are going to forcibly starve off two thirds of the world’s population and then replant the world with their genetically aluminum resistant plants. If you don’t believe this,read the reports of the massive die offs of rain and coniferous forests going on around the world right now. Droughts now ring the planet and it has nothing to do with global warming. The lush forests around  Mt. Shasta are now dry any yellow because the aluminum oxide that is also destroying farmland sucks moisture out of air. This will make the Monsanto chiefs the rullers of the world as they will totally control the world’s food supplies and make them fortunes the world has never seen concentrated into a few hands.. Soros is now buying massive farm acreage that are no longer crop productive around the country for literally pennies on the dollar, and Gates has invested his billions in Monsanto also. Gates father was an old eugenisist who wanted to reduce the black population in America. Looks like junior is going to finish his evil plans. Sleep tight all and if you keep your heads buried in the sand, you will either die miserably or wake up a serf working for your new Monsatanto rulers. Email your corrupt congress people and tell them you will vote them out of office if they don’t stop the chemtrail spraying immediately. We probably only have two years left before the damage goes beyond our ability to reverse it.Are you saying 90% Dark chocolate is not healthy?I wish there were probiotic foods that taste good, besides the yogurt and chocolate, everything else I’ve tried and really, really don’t like.ummm look alive veggie rd, if it has a lot of mono-saturated fats then by all means eat a ton of it. mono-saturated fats are extremely healthy and ironically benificial even to people trying to lose weight. It would defiantly be the sugar to be worried about.holy racism!the brigadier has a lot of information that can help people.  its too bad that the baby was thrown out with the bathwater.You are very kind Bettina, but I’m afraid our nation is officially populated by the indoctrinated leftists. They make up forty percent of our nation and they are currently in charge right now. The cycle will turn yet again and the adults will regain control of the romper room.Do you need help finding the internet?I had gastric bypass a year ago. Every thing is going well, but the smell that comes along with boulmovments and gas is bad. I really can not afford the probiotic out of the drug store. What are the best natural probiotics I can buy?Hi Mdot,Try Latero-Flora. It works great, is the highest quality probiotic available, and is very affordable-oh PLEASE.  white man’s burden much?  get over yourself.  if you’re gonna ‘play’ on the internet, be prepared to get checked when you’re out of order.  update your vocabulary and get over it!  and at the rate repunlicans are going, the “cycle” isn’t swinging back your way for a VERY long time.  you probably won’t see it in your lifetime.great suggestions.  i just finished a round of antibiotics and need to replenish my gut.  thanks for this list.Scares you death doesn’t it callgirl? As to my vocabulary, I have a Master’s Degree, written 2 books plus my Master’s Thesis, read over 20,000 books and have a 150 IQ. Your ad hominem attack shows what a mental lightweight you are. Keep up the cheap shots callgirl. You and your ilk will be booted out very soon.oriental is a design, ASIAN  is the proper describing group of humansMost probiotic supplements are about one dollar a day, very similiar to the yogurt. Yogurt, having nearly 20 grams sugar, feeds the bad bacteria gut while you provide a very very mall amount of good bacteria.However, kombucha tea may not be the best fit for everyone, especially those that have had problems with candida. <— why?It’s not an absolute but some people with runaway yeast proliferation find that abstaining from fermented beverages is necessary to find relief.I am lactose gluten wheat and dairy intolerant can I have probiotics and in what form should I take themHi Nikki,Try Latero-Flora. It’s dairy and gluten free!-Dr. GI see a lot of people eating yogurt because it’s “healthy.” And when you ask them what’s so healthy about it, they don’t know. but then again they are eating the artificial yogurt. With that being said, i find it sad that many people are not health-educated and don’t know the difference between something that’s mass-produced and something that has live/beneficial ingredients. Dr. Group, do you have any personal recipe for a good probiotic yogurt?Hey Jon, I recommend Kefir, it’s similar to yogurt but has some added benefits. Check out this recipe, it’s simple to make!Is other fermented good bad for yeast infection, too? Like sauerkraut, kimchi, fermented soy sauce =Namashoyo…? Chances are pretty good that if you are eating “dark chocolate” for health reasons, you are not able to sit down and chomp down 1 kg of it in one sitting… It is nothing like what you find in snickers or milky way bars. It is for the most part pure cocoa or pretty close to it and those “fats”found in dark chocolate are essential to the development and maintenance of the human body just as lipids play a roll in proper nutrition as well as natures antibiotics and people turn their noses up at like garlic or onion or chile.not all yogurt has sugar…miso soup is effing delicious! So is sushi. 🙂Really you guys.  I just joined this discussion to find out if anyone had some suggestions on foods that were a good source proibiotics.  I can’t believe I am reading an argument about whether saying oriental instead of Asian is racist.  This country has bigger issues that having to worry about if everything that comes out of our mouths is polically correct.  Personally I did not know that being labeled as oriental was insulting and I could have very easily made the same mistake, not because I am racist, because I am not, but because I don’t see anything wrong with being oriental.  Now does anyone have any suggestions on foods that are high in probiotics?Don.t be a smart as s, some people need help or may not be computer savvyyou’re yeasty because you are a stinkin LIEberal that takes antibiotics when you get a cough and also because you are disgusting with your personal hygiene as all LIEberal skanks area negro is a negro you don’t like it too bad idiot.ya like chicken vindaloo!! yum!Oh… horrors !!!   Did you actually mean to say “Indian” food…..racist !!!!   (joking)How about eating sea veg. products first? As I understand it this is a common practice in Japan. As in the “Village of Long Life” which was once online for free but now sits behind a pay wall. These 90-year-olds still physically active also eat a lot of Japanese sweet potatoes rich in the fabled Hylauronic acid now included in many expensive “cosmoceuticals”.I knew a now-retired health food store owner who swore by organic apple cider vinegar. He seemed pretty healthy.Yes, eating seafood or taking an iodine source at least a half hour before eating soy, any food made from wheat flour or processed oats, or fluorine will ensure you are getting your daily requirement.Thanks for your post which is truly informative for us and we will
surely keep visiting this website. We are also in same field and welcome you to
visit our websiteIf there is a good natural probiotic in a pill form what would you choose?My friend has been hospitalized with three bouts of cdiff. Your list is invaluable and much appreciated, thank you! Of course all the Drs and hospital are saying is to go home and eat yogurt and take a probiotic supplement. I knew there had to be more she can do, thanks for the help!  is a great probiotic that can help maintain a healthy colon by populating the intestines with beneficial bacteria.i agree brigadier, but above you were being very separative politically in what came off as a ‘fed up with liberal’ stance. There is evil in both Democrat and Republican, as well as good people under both. We are all human. However, is it not true that Monsanto is headed by Republican corporate big wigs – – the same whom also control the majority of the FDA? (I’m not trying to sound smart allecky, I may have been misinformed)cheers.I never said Monsanto was run  by Republican corporate bigwigs. Monsanto in fact has bribed both aisles of Congress for a long time. Before the vote of the “Food Safety Act” came up in late 2010, Monsanto gave all Senators $350,000 for their campaign chests, and $175,000 for all House members. Only a few Dems gave back the money, and about seventy five percent of the Republicans in both houses gave the money back.
That Christmas eve, the Republican senators went home thinking the bill was dead, but Harry Reid, who has been bought and paid for by Monsanto, held a session late that night.  At 11:59, he opened the Senate, said their was a quorum present and called for a voice vote. At 11:59:50 the vote was unanimous and Reid closed the session
with seconds to spare.
The Act which Obama signed two days after Christmas, makes it illegal to sell heirloom (non-GMO) crops at roadside stands without a license. It does a lot more to ban heirloom farming.
In 2012, the same criminal Harry Reid, snuck a rider into a transportation bill at the last minute. It passed before anyone else knew it was in. This new act is called the “Monsanto Indemnity Act,” giving Monsanto absolute indemnity for any damage to people or the planet when it occurs. Reid should be charged, tried and convicted for blatant pandering that is a serious felony under the US Code. Rather than Republicans, Monsanto has found better allies in the Dem Party.There is nothing wrong with asking someone who makes a claim to be able to back up said claim with some sort of evidence. That’s how science works, friend.Well that escalated quickly.sorry but how can you insist that saturated fat is not harmful. I totally agree that we should avoid consuming foods that are high in saturated fats. Eating a diet that is high in saturated fat can raise the level of cholesterol in the blood. Having high cholesterol increases the risk of heart disease. Do you think it normal?Just in general, at no one in particular…Political correctness was actually introduced to further marginalise people.It’s well known that the ‘control structure’ are responsible for inciting hate in progressive forums as a means to change topic and create disparity.
Please don’t assist them in making it harder for people to educate themselves. Don’t further propagate this notion of division that is so heavily indoctrinated into us.
Remember, we live in a world of differences, and those differences exist to make us more, not less. Most of today’s problems are because of cultural differences, and our culture is dictated by a deceitful and destructive system of control. Many of the entities such as religious, governmental, business, entertainment,
lobbyists, educational, scientific, health and so on that are a part of this elaborate extensive system become the source of our identity, and consequently,
our culturally defined identity maintains division.People’s beliefs have always been the strongest bonds of slavery, with economics, poisons, fear, and misinformation as the whip. Words will never explain the wisdom the soul can interpret. So hear not words, listen to your soul. Don’t let a world of convoluted ideals dictate what is right, especially ideals without vision.Don’t be distracted by the blame game. The empire has been spreading for much time, and many people have been used in it’s expansion. Ask yourself, what agenda they must have? Knowledge, rare resources, human work force, absolute control.Think of it like a dog fight. If you are put in a ring with another dog, you see it as the threat and attack with little consideration for what is happening outside of your circle. The truth is, the threat is the person responsible for creating the parameters of the dogs existence, and thusly, leading it to believe that the problem is the other dog, who is also trapped in the same ring, with the same limited perspective.Look outside the circle, less you wish to keep going round and roundMost people know it as playing the race card, or the gender card.  I for one am sick of it as we now see on it daily basis.  They try and marginalize to silence people and I for one will not be silenced by all those mental lightweights who try and portray themselves as victims in order to win a argument they can’t win by any other means.Definitely agreed. Minority lobbyist groups (all lobbyist groups) often have vested interests. They become responsible for defining what’s an injustice, who’s to cause for it (which leads to resentment), and hollow solutions that promise to solve the ‘problem’.The thing is, these victims are not even arguing their own points. They are the ones that have grown most complacent in this system, that they unwittingly become the system.Cultural division is outsourced by the ‘slave empire’ to the blind faithful, and they have become the spokespersons.Now don’t get me wrong. The blind are only blind because they have been elaborately lied to and guided towards a path of compliance, albeit far from reach of their moral centre, which is necessary for control. Faith and belief are altruistic spiritual characteristics, generally optimistic, but entirely responsible for how we interact physically and consciously. The real war is waged on our beliefs. You don’t even have to like the system, just as long as you focus on the problems as they portray them, your conscious mind becomes limited. I used to be none the wiser myself. We’ve all been there. I’ve been thinking of ways to enlighten people and challenge what they’ve been taught as acceptable. It’s hard not to get frustrated when people don’t understand the way of the system, or when they express the systemic divisional belief paradigm. True wisdom comes from self revelation. Therefore, i arrived at the notion that the best way to reawaken our collective consciousness is to propose simple questions that profoundly and fundamentally question our current controlled way of life.
Arguing with people doesn’t work, because a defensive disposition often becomes one of automated responses. And you can’t give some people the answers. They’re glass is already full in most cases, or they accept it in a literal sense with no thought to associated implications.It’s the questions that control what goes into the glass, empties the glass, even determine the size of the glass. If the questions and answers never change, there is no need for a bigger glass, nor change of contents. Questions create, and answers replicate.People are less likely to look for the answers, if they think they already have them. History is around to remind us of the petty reasons we’ve gone to war. That way, it seems acceptable to believe it’s still petty differences that are the source of our destruction.
This subsequently leads to resentment towards the people who’s differences have “caused” the violence, despite the true reason for war. This resentment manifests in those that fail to see the deceit.Many people that have a divisional mindset also have low self esteem because they apply the same principle to judge themselves. The feelings of inadequacy drive them to build and maintain an ‘acceptable’ image, and their compensating attitude projects into judgement of others. It also makes them more dependent to looking outside themselves for the answer.It’s not us that doesn’t measure up to the system, it’s the system that doesn’t measure up to us.I have the flu and wanted to look up probiotics. I just wanted to know if jar pickles are sufficient. Then I read all this comical angry conversation about racism…….does anyone know about the pickles? Hi Sherry
My oh my, these people have lost the plot!
I’d like to find out more about the pickles too!
Are they the regular dill gherkins that I buy from the supermarket? (UK)
PS. Ive just ordered Miso Soup from Amazon.
Never tried it before but it look like an amazing health booster. For free delivery I had to but 2 lots which worked out nearly the same price as paying for their p&p on 1 item (Which incidently is 24 portions) I only hope that I like it 🙂Hi Sherry and Annabelle,For optimum nutrients and health benefits, you will want to get organic pickles. The fermentation process, and probiotics are said to break down pesticides. Personally, i’m not entirely sure how many different pesticides there are, or how liberally they are used geographically.Cucumbers (Pickles) have high levels of pesticides. Below excerpt sourced from net:“Out of all cucumbers tested, 45.3 percent of them contained Endosulfan, a chemical the U.S. EPA has been trying to ban since 2010. The Pesticide Action Network explains that endosulfan can cause headaches, nausea, vomiting, seizures, and in higher levels — unconsciousness and death.Pesticide Count: The USDA found 35 pesticides in cucumbers.Health Effect Breakdown:
9 are known or probable carcinogens
25 are suspected hormone disruptors
12 are neurotoxins
9 are developmental or reproductive toxinsEnvironmental toxins:
16 of these affect honeybees”Hope this helps 🙂Naw if they want the proof then they need to find it themselves.
 Only the Evil Dirty politicians would want the proof so they can publicly attack and dismantle it with their LIES!!!.How on God’s green Earth is the word Orientals offensive? I’m going to guess it was created by Asians. Next thing you know all the races will decide to get upset about the names they are being called now and want to change them, AGAIN. Why are so many people obsessed with ethnicity? Why can’t people just be PEOPLE instead lf everyone crying, racism, racism!very healthyI would really like to see a list of the best yoghurt brands with their probiotic rating.Good question. .they said DARK CHOCOLATE, dark chocolate, as in cocoa actually does have health benefits, its just the processed sugary milk chocolates that you get from say cadbury are what are bad for you. Oraganic dark chocolate, can be beneficial, I obviously would not recommend eating a full bar of it, but if you ever feel like a treat, go for dark choc because it’s not as bad for you as you think. Infact it’s very quite sour.Yogurt that is pasteurized, and in the US virtually ALL yogurt is pasteurized, loses almost all of the benefits that it contained before pasteurization! Plus, at least here in the US yogurt is loaded with white sugar or artificial sweeteners. Neither are good for you, but artificial sweeteners are DEADLY!!!!!If you have access to Raw Unpasteurized Milk, try making Kefir!The same goes for pasteurized milk and juice and anything else that is pasteurized. It has virtually none of the benefits that it contained before it was pasteurized, it is virtually a nutrient dead food, a food that is void of almost all the nutrients it has in its natural unpasteurized state!!I’ve just been diagnosed with SIBO, whats the best intake of probiotics i can take, I’m also lactose sensitive and type 1 diabetic.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Thats been disproven as a myth started by the makers of margarine companies. People with high levels of saturated fat outside of the us have lower risk of heart disease such as in france and italy. Who mentioned white people? I smell bigotry under the diguise of ma freedum…MURIKKA!Hey Callgirl, How did you like those mid terms! I guess your definition of a VERY long time must have been two years! I would also like to bet that Brigadier saw it happen in his lifetime! Don’t go away mad, just go away! Demonrats got their donkeys kicked and handed to them big time and it ain’t over yet! Hopefully your unprincipled habitually lying pandering bath house boy messiah will be out of office and in a prison cell soon!Pingback: ()what about your ad hominem attacks? they are all over the place. indeed, you appear to play the victim quite often, subjected to “liberals” who you believe are ruining your life and country. you made an immediate assumption that anyone who points out your INCORRECT word usage is a liberal. your nastiness and assumptions are what started this conflict. oriental refers to things, asian refers to people. all my most conservative friends and family know that, even the FOX devotees. even my Brigadier father. where you been? by the way, i’m a publisher and a LOT of crap books make it out there. and anyone who throws out an IQ number as proof of anything is a social imbecile. no one is impressed. oh yeah, 20,000 books. if you were 80 years old and could read from birth, that would be 250 books a year. give me a break with the hyperbole.In the UK “Oriental” would refer to someone of a Mongoloid race such as Chinese, Japanese, Korean, Thai etc etc.  These countries are considered “The Far East” or “The Orient”.  The term “Oriental” is not considered offensive in the UK.Asian in the UK means Pakistani, Indian, Bangladeshi – basically from the Indian subcontinentI think its because we have a much larger proportion of people from the Indian Subcontinent than from “Oriental” countries, because Pakistan, India, Bangladesh etc are members of the Commonwealth and were former colonies.  So we use “Asian” to refer to these people and “Oriental” refers to the people who would, in the USA be called “Asian” – we have a smaller number of people fron “Oriental” countries than people from “Asian” countries in the UK.Confusing, I know!  But “Oriental” is not considered offensive in the UK.Pingback: ()Brigadier, sir; I have read your comments and I am very impressed with what you have to say. To me, what you say makes a lot of sense. Thank you for the information you shared. Just wanted to mention that I am Asian and take no offense to the Oriental remarks.  I think some have made them to be like wow!?, pivotal in hearing what you really want to share.
I am and have been a life-long Dem, and take no offense to anything you’ve said as being politically offensive in anyway; I get what you’re saying and agree whole heartedly.
Again, my thanks for your very valuable information.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()I am a miso addict and eat it in some form a few times a week.  A great probiotic and, if you add a few hot chilies to the dish, it’s wonderful.  Can be used in dishes other than soup…for example, a miso and chili stir-fry with tons of veggies is guaranteed to put the guts in order!I hate to cloud an issue with facts, but I lived and worked in Japan for over 6 years.  Did extensive travel duty through most of the Asian countries.  Many of the locals I met had no problem with the “O” word and in fact, many would refer to themselves as “Orientals” in conversations in which we would be discussing cultural differences.  I am not sure how the use of the “Oriental” could be offensive to people in Asia, but I suppose if one looked hard enough, they could probably dig up a few.You’re a racist low life. End of story. Your life is spent being a keyboard warrior in random threads. You can’t accept that the world doesn’t revolve around you and that makes your pathetic self butt hurt.i dont eat curd and i  frequently catch cold.Can i find a substitute for yogurt??Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Negro is nothing more than the Latin (Spanish) translation of black.  I am a part of a miniscule minority (I may very well be the only one!) who loathes being referred to as ‘black’.  As a centuries-old ubiquitous label that I myself used until the past few years, I stop well short of being offended with the term however.The label “black” is a major contributor to the negative stigma attached to Americans (and other nationalities) of African descent worldwide.  Not only is it descriptively illogical (my skin is not black it is brown, and many other “blacks” are tan, white, etc.) it is representative of all things negative concerning life in general.  These things are too numerous to discus in this post and it would take a lifetime to realize and 99% of human beings never will.Are there some very dark brown people in Africa?  Yes.  What are they?  Are they Zimbabwean, Kenyan, Monrovian, Egyptian, Ethiopian, Moroccan, Sudanese, etc., etc., etc.?Instead of being given an identity such as a Dane, Greek, Italian, German, Spaniard, Scot or any other number of European nationalities, Americans of African descent are simply called “black”.  If I must be referred to by the color of my skin, why not call it as it actually is?  You don’t call a green light pole orange do you?Goat cheeseAfter taking oral antibiotics for a bone infection..Osteomyelitis..it gave me severe acne that i’ve never had before..Gabapetin also had reported acne side effects..as a 45 year old male..this is really hard to deal with since it’s never happened before..so I’m very sure that was the cause of this acne blowout..I have used natural masks, honey/lemon/baking soda.and so far has been helping..but the acne still persists..both surface and cystic..can probiotics like cider vinegar help..besides the other foods listed..I really need help and NOT from a dermatologist who’ll only prescribe antibiotics or creams that will only drain the wallet and NOT stop the cause..as per usual of Western medicine.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Well said you Occidental you.   What is so wrong with calling someone from the Orient, Oriental?
I’m from Australia and I don’t mind at all if you call me an Aussie.Thank you for you food post!!! You put a lot of time into your “iodine” crusade! Know that this occidental girls got your back and as concerned about my being forcibly fed chemicals/minerals that I never signed on for!  That I never approved!  And that I had no idea about! I have the right to be informed! And I also have the right to many varying choices! Those choices are very limited in the food world as it costs more money to get food without anything wrong with it as opposed to getting food with all the additives…or unknown changes! Does anyone not like chocolate ? Because I absolutely hate it Pickled also includes that which is soaked in Brine. You can get pickles that have gone through a brine process instead of a vinegar one.This source is already somewhat deceiving.  Probiotics only work if you are consuming a live culture form of the bacteria.  Yogurts do not have a live culture in them because by the time it is manufactured and bought, they are dead. (let alone what all the chemicals they tend to add do to the culture)This is talking about the stuff that you buy in food stores thoughThere is no detectable difference between organic anything and conventional anything. Except for the high prices of “organic”.It’s a pity the “indoctrinated leftists” don’t make up 60% of the nation considering the “indoctrinated rightists” are slowly destroying the constitution of the USA. But people like Governor Brownstain of Kansas are working hard to convert many tea bag sucking Repthuglians into “indoctrinated leftists” by attacking the average guy, gutting education and practicing the “trickle down” theory of disastrous economics.Hey, and I’m superman! You’re a freaking nutcase who believes in chemtrails. I think you’re a lying sack of you know what.Prison for what, tea bag sucker? Name the crime so we can all laugh at you.Another ad hominem attack by another racist playing the race card. Orientals and Occidentals are two old terms for people in the east and the west Tupac.  How those terms are racist is bewildering and defy logic.  You are all such leftist scumbags for your constant race baiting and demonizing and I will no longer be quiet about it.  Your reign of destruction in this nation is almost over and you will be hammered for it.  Better take cover all you lowlife scumbags.Hey Oldfart, eff you, you blatant piece of lowlife trash.  If the currency crash comes there will be a second revolution and all of you effing leftists will have a choice – go to Mexico, Canada or choose which ocean you want to swim for it.  And yes chemtrail spraying does exist and its a part of the Climate Amelioration Program signed into existence by Clinton, and continued by both Bush and Obama.  Look it up on YouTube.  Some guy got a copy of the manual and he shows many pages of it.  ActionIdiot – Look up the words Orientals and Occidentals.  They refer to people in spite of your half witted attempts to paint me a racist.  More leftist demonizing and yes I have read 20K books.  I learned to speed read in my teens.  You might try it before convincing yourself you are the end all of intelligence.This is a conversation about food and health, not a trolling opportunity for people who spend their lives on disqus hating on people.The previous comment has some value as a perspective, but so long as the skin is free of pesticides, I don’t care what color it is, or how its described.Blackcurrants arent black either and I’m a bluey not white. But none of it has anything do do with fermented foods. So shush.Jeez, 9 days ago, youre still here, following on from something 2 years ago.
Lets get back to the point… I would be very interested in your knowledge about the low quality food we get, however your combined use of words like leftist, liberal, propaganda, ad-hominem, race card, scumbags, trash, all lead me to conclude you are a particular type of person who gets all of his opinions on the internet. Is it racist of me that I can tell you are white american male?Cheap food may be to blame for your flawed brain chemistry, but the fix starts with you. Calm yourself angry boy.Ive read this is the only form of vinegar one should eat. All other forms should be avoided.
What does this mean for jars of pickles?I love how this thread on a site called global healing center turned into this. I am sure the one who posted is absolutely ecstatic because you all have put him in the top ranks of google! I must try to create a blog post with some hidden signal to acreate an extreme controversial argument on the health benefits of chocolate… By the way it’s DARK CHOCOLATE and yes it has benefits… that will in turn become a political argument in which I will also rank number one in google and get paid from affiliate ad’s! You all are absolutely ridiculous and I look forward to capitalizing off of you. 😀Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()thats all great but what do you give a preschooler? They bloat too. Ive cut out yogurt because of milk so what else is there?AppApparently it is not racist. In North American English it is considered not politically correct. Lets remember that the internet is not limited to your country. However, Asia is a large continent and in British English an Asian refers to people from Central Asia while “Oriental” refers to East Asia. “Negro”, while it translates to the color “black” in Spanish, has a racist association in most languages but it can also be a term of affection, like “honey” or “sweetie”.If there is no other food option that you are able to consider, we recommend Latero-Flora™ as an alternative.  Many parents will open the capsules up and add the contents to a mashed organic banana or some home made organic apple sauce.Oriental should refer to objects, such as rugs, or art – NOT people. So yes, it is offensive. You’re either openly racist, or just stupid and ignorant. YOU are what America needs to cleanse itself of. Pingback: ()montsanto – if there ever was a truly evil corporate they are itDark chocolate is a very potent anti-oxidant.  Not quite as high as pomegranate juice, but still its much higher than many others.  A friend of mine who is also my doctor is a homeopath.  He tells everyone that free radicals are the source of all disease in the body and the best preventative is to load up on anti-oxidants 24/7.  He does and in five years I have never seen him sick.You are partially right, Alicia, but the yogurt made with live culture retains the probiotics for about ten days.  The two top brands of yogurt are questionable especially for the amount of sucrose and fructose they put in it that kills off the bacteria only after a few days.  There is one brand of yogurt sold at Sam’s Club that has six different kinds of bacteria in it and it has no fruit or sugar other than what is used to grow the bacteria.  Not my favorite taste, but it sure will get your gi tract back in order very fast.Take a half teaspoon of ground cinnamon twice a day along with a good soluble iodine source like dried kelp and you can say goodbye to your diabetes.  They are even selling cinnamon capsules in drugstores, but buy the cinammom veritas from your supermarket and that is the real Latin spelling of it, and save yourself some money.They do have vitamin D and calcium and since many people have shortages of both, so drinking or eating dairy has benefits.  Another drawback to eating or drinking dairy is the extra estrogen dairy farmers give their cows to double their milk production.  The amount of estrogen they administer for this doubled production is three times the amount of estrogen the cows have naturally.  Human females have seen a tremendous increase in breast and cervical cancers with the attendant spike in cancer deaths because they cannot handle that much extra estrogen in addition to their own. Metro men or the city men constantly exposed to oesters from petroleum products have a tremendous elevated levels of estrogen as well.  Di-hydrous testosterone is one form of this estrogen that is formed in males and it results in the formation of man breasts, soft muscles and female like rounded curves.  There is also a major related current spike in prostate cancers as well.Both men and women can block the extra estrogen and the cancers by eating mustard family plant vegetables every day.  Since women have their own estrogen naturally for their gender, they need to eat two portions of mustard family vegetables every day.  Men only need to eat one, but like women it needs to be around six ounces and you have to eat it daily.  Guys, when Di- hydrous testosterone is present you will know it because it causes rapid hair loss. Furthermore regular testosterone gets trapped in muscle and fat in your body. Eating mustard plants releases the stored testosterone, and for a week or so your levels will be at a whopping 247% above normal.  Its a marvelous time to begin a power exercise program when you begin your diet change.Mustard family plants include, mustard greens, Brussels sprouts, cauliflower, broccoli, Bok Choi cabbage, Napa Valley cabbage, and other cabbages as well. Look up mustard family plants for a slightly expanded list.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Wow, I was hoping to read through the comments to find more probiotic rich foods to throw into my diet or other nutritional foods beneficial to my digestive system or pH balance. Instead, I’m finding politics this and racism that and White People this and America that and so so so much hate. Why can’t people JUST stick to the damn topic and keep their political or civil agendas to themselves and save em for a more relatable article? Come on, folks.!!!!!I suggest you read The Great Cholesterol Myth and also Good Calories/Bad Calories. Saturated fat, which is mostly made by your liver is necessary for cell health, including brain health. The anti real fat idea was started by Ansel Keys and his seven country study.  However, he had reliable information for 22 countries. He cherrie picked his countries  to prove his ideas. If you include all 22 countries, sugar and lack of exercise become the real villains.
Another man by the name of John Yutkin pointed out the problems with Keys research. Yutkin wrote a book about sugar called Pure, White and deadly.  Needless to say, Big Sugar, who invented a lot of the tactics used by big tobacco, put a lot of money into backing Keys.
Saturated fat is the bandage that it put over the inflammation caused by sugar. It is not the source of the damage. However, there are different sizes of lipoproteins. Saturated fat in the diet increases the size of these. These are the safe, harmless lipoproteins. Sugar in the diet decreases the size of lipoproteins. These are the ones that help clog your arteries. Your trig numbers tell you which you likely have. The higher the trig numbers, the smaller the lipoproteins.
A interesting note: 1/2 the people which have heart attacks or strokes have normal or low cholesterol levels. The other half have high.  Having a problem seeing which is worse. However your chance of dying from infection or cancer is much higher if you have low cholesterol levels.
Here is hoping that you have high cholesterol, full of big fat lipoproteins and low trig levels. That will give you the chance for the longest life.I hated it when I first tried it. 99%. Now I find I love it.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Is Miso Soup an “Oriental” or “Asian” soup?  i am so confused and need polotical correctness. I am glad I came here to find out about Probiotics and incorrectness in politics all in one read.  Talk about multi-tasking…Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()he hates Politian’s can’t blame the guy thee food supply is contaminated or few would be here as i’m certain you knowPingback: ()this is a good website 🙂Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()who makes oriental rugs or art ?? is it Mexicans?? is that term offensive too?Anyone who makes rugs in the Orient, dolt. So no, not Mexicans. Here’s a free geography lesson: Mexico is not part of the Orient.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Raising HDL levels is contingent upon consuming the right fats (seeds, nuts, avocados) along with a lot of soluble fiber. Once this is achieved you can handle some saturated fat. Chocolate is made without dairy if you are a vegan…Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Hi there. Dr. Edward Group DC, NP, DACBN, DCBCN, DABFM
My stomach is sensitive to fructans. I wanna know that could these probiotics be helpful for me?Is it good to drink yakult (probiotic-lactobacilli)? For abdominal  pain….Pingback: ()“Don’t forget to get your 180 units of iodine every day. It is also a powerful preventative against a whole host of cancers.”Eating the diet that God & Mother designed humans and animals  to eat is by far the biggest prevention for chronic, deadly diseases such as cancer. The S.A.D, Standard American Diet is so nutrient deficient that it allows diseases like cancer to invade our bodies because our immune systems are weakened by this diet and devastated by all chemical based pharmaceuticals that many people take every day. 80% of our immune system are in our “gut”. Chemical based pharmaceuticals destroy most/all of the good gut bacteria that our bodies need to process the foods that we eat and to keep our immune systems healthy, strong and able to do their jobs.. It is only our bodies immune system that has the ability to prevent and cure illness and diseases like cancer. Pingback: ()Pingback: ()A number of the fermented foods recommended give me the worst case of gas and bloating (Kimchi and sour kraut to be exact). Will this side affect eventually stop once I change my gut chemistry or will I have to live with being flatulent the rest of my life?Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Orientals?? Are you kidding…Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()“Science” has become corrupted.  Ever hear of climate gate? Ever notice how the FDA changes it’s stance on how a food is good for you for a while, then it’s not so good for you? i.e. eggs, butter. Whoever is paying for the study will get the results they are looking for. Ever wonder why there are “scientific studies” that contradict each other?NOTE # All pasteurized foods have been sterilized for longer shelf life because of greedy profit and  no longer contain any beneficial bacteria, This stuff should be labeled as a food bi-product being unfit even to use as animal feed. Indeed some countries are beginning to ban these counterfeit substitutes outright. It makes one wonder who is paying off the F.D.A. to allow this dangerous practice..Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Oh my…! Please, watch one of Natasha Campbell- McBride’s lectures on YouTube.  Wise traditions, London 2010. It’s 128 mins long but WILL CHANGE YOUR LIFE!Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()thanks for the list of foods!!Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()You need to read information thoroughly for your own benefit , as this comment has lead to a string of wasted time to read through , it clearly states dark Choc is not a probiotic but an effective carrier for it alongside many other benefits, including 1/3 of the fats only as the more unhealthy source , the other 2/3 of data are the healthier types ! Pingback: ()Pingback: ()As a vegan I choose not to eat yogurt or have kefir. Can you suggest something vegan in replacement for those please ?Hi, Maria. In these cases we recommend coconut kefir and coconut yogurt which can be found at most health food stores. Or you can also try making your own at home. Please see  and .The article never said chocolate is a probiotic source. It rather states that it carries probiotic safely through the extreme PHs of the digestive track.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()The very first sentence says, “dark chocolate does not contain probiotics. So I’m not sure what anyone is going on about on this thread….Did you actually read it? Pingback: ()Pingback: ()I found a probiotic with 2 billion cultures that comes in small squares of chocolate. Called Nature’s Bounty. It was in the pharmacy at Walmart. Easy to take. Are you Oriental or something?WTF? Are you Oriental or something?Pingback: ()Damn… have you actually read the article? “Chocolate itself ?????’? ??????? ??????????, but it was found to be a very effective carrier for probiotics.” Stop confusing people.Tempeh is NOT a source if B12 and this is dangerous information to spread especially for vegans or vegetarians who will think that by eating tempeh they are getting B12. Please read Sally Pacholok’s book ‘Could it be B12?’. Tempeh contains the B12 analogue which actually blocks absorption of the B12 that we need. Please correct this error as soon as possible. Misinformation like this leads to sick vegans and vegetarians.Dude – the poster never said dark chocolate contains pro biopics haha y’all need to learn how to read. Pingback: ()cholesterol has been paying the blame for the harm that is really made by sugar and carbs….cholesterol actually is found in areas that have been damaged by sugar and trying to “patch” them….but the sugar industry was very clever on diverting the blame to fat…..blaming cholesterol for disese is like the police arresting a citizen passing by the site of a crime just because he has a long facePingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()