Yesterday, we had a contest on our . We asked everybody to share their favorite healthy eating tips with everybody, and the winners got a free T-Shirt and copy of our popular book, .The responses were just fantastic, so we wanted to share them with all of our blog readers. Check out all the healthy eating tips from our Facebook fans below.And if you ever want to win a free ,  or t-shirt, visit our Facebook page every Wednesday. That’s the day we will be having a contest.Come join in on the fun! Eat proteins & starches separate! about 3-5 hours apart. they digest at different ph levels and we don’t receive full nutritional value or digest them all the way when eaten together. vegetables go great with both tho! and it’s always a good idea to drink LOTS of water!! The best thing I’ve ever done for my health (besides going 100% organic) is to start taking spirulina/chlorella, the health benefits are incredible, the best quality I’ve found comes from the watershed wellness center. Drink lots and lots of water… it helps  and provides hydration for your body. My Favorite Healthy Eating Tip is to use … Cleared up years of allergy problems and lost 60 pounds, plus helped a lot with my achy joints… It’s very affordable even on the tightest budget, one can afford to buy it… The best tip I give is to find a good tasting water and drink water most of the day. Avoid sweet drinks and reduce caffeine intake. I’ve found my sugar cravings have been drastically reduced and I continue to lose weight even if I overindulged in less than healthy foods. Drink this all day long –> Water. Water. Water. Beer.. More Water. Don’t eat 3-5 hours prior to your sleeping time. Better to sleep hungry rather to . Stomach is the home of illness and a solid diet is the remedy. Don’t eat foods with labels. Eat as much organic as possible. And take a  with 5 billion cfu daily. I completely agree with most of the above as well especially drinking H2O all day! ! I credit it with clearing up my wheat and dairy intolerances. Daily green smoothie w/ rejuvelac as the base liquid. If you are trying to pronounce it … you don’t need it. Relax before you eat. Drink a cup of hot , put on some relaxing music, prepare and eat consciously. Try to make a habit of the “12 hour fast”: dinner to breakfast (for instance, 7 pm to 7 am). It helps you keep the calories down, and fans of “caloric restriction” believe it also lengthens your life. Staying away from all things gluten. Meals consisting of small amounts of protein and vegetables only and Oxy Powder!! Love it, love it, love it!To add onto the responses above, I would recommend following an all organic and  filled with plenty of fruits, vegetables, whole grains,  and . These foods will give you all the energy you need to get through your day. Also take a  and , as both of these will help promote optimal health.Try to avoid any foods or drinks that have ,  or . This may be hard to do nowadays, but the more you limit those three substances, the better off you will be. Additionally, try not to eat any fast food or processed foods, as these are usually full of unhealthy substances.What are your healthy eating tips? Add to the conversation and leave them in the comments below!
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.Great list of tips! I gave up drinking sodas at the beginning of the year, and I’ve already lost 12lbs, with little-to-no exercise.  That would be my healthy eating tip — STOP DRINKING SODAS! As that guy said above, water, water, beer, water… I would add coffee to that list though. I can’t go without my morning coffee! 🙂Water is definitely important. Lots and lots of water is the key to any healthy diet.Hi Dr. Group:All of those a really great tips. I believe that eating/drinking more greens is the base of a healthy lifestyle. Just like Candace mentioned a daily green smoothie does a ton of goods especially in the morning! I love the taste of the great green juices I make everyday.I have a fresh fruit smoothie every morning made with coconut milk and bananas, berries,  or any fruit I have on hand along with chorella,vitamins,revesatro and proboitics. I have never gained or lost a lb. all my life and I am 67. In th eafternoon I make up my greens into juioce.  I eat 3 good meals a day. I never drink any kind of sods. every one thinks I am much younger as i don’t have gray hair or wrinkles.  It really works!Drinking 8 -10 glasses of water each day is a healthy dietary tip that I follow.Less of carbohydrate, more of protein, less oil.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()