What centuries of grandmothers have instinctively known is now being confirmed by everyone from modern scientists to naturopathic doctors. Onions may have the ability to ward off and relieve symptoms of the common flu. And in a world where, according to the CDC, many Americans get the flu every year, the simple method of boiling onions into a drinkable broth may be a good practice.        Moreover, the outbreak of H1N1, commonly known as swine flu, has caused many people to consider getting flu vaccinations that, in my opinion, will do more harm than good. Prevention is the best method, and this post will offer some insight into this ancient technique of using onions for indications of the flu.The idea that onions and their potent therapeutic properties may ward off disease through extends back thousands of years. Ancient Ayurvedic and Chinese medicine revered onions for their congestion-relieving properties. The Ancient Greeks rubbed onions on  and the Native Americans used them to ward off the common cold and flu. In fact, the World Health Organization has even recognized the onion for its ability to help relieve flu symptoms including coughs, congestion, respiratory infections and bronchitis.Some traditions have even recommended placing sliced onions beside the bed at night, or even just around the house, to help prevent yours from getting the flu. The theory was that the raw onion would absorb germs in the air, preventing them from entering the body. Even though, it must be noted, that one of the most common ways to get the flu is by contact with contaminated surfaces or people. So remember to wash your hands, especially before eating or scratching your eyes. In an early 1900’s Los Angeles Times article, the following suggestion was offered to the public:
	“In a sickroom you cannot have a better disinfectant than the onion. It has a wonderful capacity for absorbing germs. A dish of sliced onions placed in a sickroom will draw away the disease; they must be removed as soon as they lose their odor and become discolored, and be replaced by fresh one.”
        Onions are high in sulfuric compounds such as thiosulfinates, sulfoxides, and other odorous cysteine sulfoxides. These compounds give onions their pungent flavor and are what make you cry when cutting them. Research shows that thiosulfinates are toxic to harmful organisms. Sulfuric compounds also play a role in cancer and heart disease prevention, and therefore act as a great immune-boosting food for general disease prevention.Onions are also extremely high in the . Quercetin helps the body fight free-radicals, and boosts the immune response. A recent study from the British Journal of Nutrition showed that individuals who ate foods high in quercetin (onion soup was used in the study), had better immune responses and less likelihood for cardiovascular disease.    The Delmar’s Integrative Herb Guide states, “Onions help break up or clear mucous and other substances that block the immune system from doing its work.”    This season, if you feel a cold or flu coming on, make yourself a big pot of soup using this simple recipe.Chop the onions and garlic into cubes. Bring water to a boil and add onions, garlic, and oregano. Let simmer for 15 minutes, or until you notice that the onions are translucent and soft. Drink the hot soup and allow your body temperature to rise enough to induce mild sweating.Additionally, here’s a  that may also help you get relief.    
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.Thank you for the articledo u reckonmend eating onions raw or cooking them. which would have the best outcome?This is great! I will have to share with my boyfriend as he is always complaining about my onion breath!Dazza – Either way is fine or do both. It is always better to eat them raw though..I believe onions can help alleviate symptoms (congestion) but not cure disease. Honestly, a viral partical does not gravitate towards a chopped onion. It goes where the wind blows it (or a person puts it). People, you have to use logic or common sense!I heard about the help that keeping onions in the house does to prevent flu or common cold.
I woke up one morning with a very sore throat (I already had the onions in my house). In the afternoon I felt better and the next morning I was fine.
I do believe that the onions helped me because I very often had problems with my throat and it took days to get better.
Try it. You won’t loose anything and can gain something.I’m on the fence whether to believe this or not. both Snopes.com and urban legends.com refute this claim about onions. From what I understand both sites research the items before they post them as true or false. Can you give me information on the research to support your claim? I want to believe, but I’m a skeptic when something sounds to good to be true!Articles on both sites are somewhat misleading. They both focus on the claim that onion is supposed to be capable of “catching” or “absorbing” viruses, i.e. flu virus. The truth is that onions don’t absorb any germs – that’s not the point, that’s not how onions help you avoid sickness or get well sooner. It’s not about onions “absorbing germs”, but about onions being rich in some oils that evaporate from the peeled onions while they are drying. These oils spread in the air, you breath them in, and this is how you get to feel better. These oils help your immune system to fight germs and viruses, as well as do releive symptoms like cough, runny nose, congestion. My greatgrandma who was born and raised in a rural Ukraine, always made onion & garlic juice when we got cold or flu. She placed little cups of this juice next to our beds. It did work really well – in just a few hours cough got better and no more runny noses. Try it!I am working on my diplomate in Pediatrics.  At my last class the doctor recommended onion tea with no sweetners for children with congestion. I has to be better than all the side effects of drugs and immunizations.I meant It has to be better than the side effects of drug etc.This is just stupid, and a little dangerous.  Using pseudo science dating back to the Black Plague, and throw in a lie or two about what officials actually say about it, then we will add a little truth regarding the vitamin benefits of onions that everybody already know and we have made truth out of an old wives tale.  To many people believe this stuff, and writing can cause harm to those who cannot effectively fight off an illness when a believer puts out onions so that her friends can come over.  Writing this article was just irresponsibleBelieve what you want but my mother in law told me about this when I married her son in 1996 and I scoffed. She used this method more for stomach bugs than the flu. She told me that when someone throws up in the house to immediately cut an onion in about 4 pieces and distribute the onions through the house and no one else would get sick. I thought she was crazy but my husband insisted that she had done that their whole lives and that it worked. I had my son almost 10 years ago and everytime someone is sick I cut my onion . Not one time has someone else gotten sick and you know how contagious the stomach bug is.So far I have never had to try the flu theory and I do not recommend that you forgo flu vaccines and just rely on onions to work their magic. However, if someone in my home gets the flu, I will be cutting the onions. I don’t see how spending a few bucks and cutting some onions will hurt even if it doesn’t help.At what age is it okay to give a child onion tea; how young can they be?India is one of the biggest onion producer and they use in almost all dishes, It is unimaginable to have a meal without turmeric and onion. India produces mainly red onion and the red colour flows on cutting, this is where the main medicinal value is.The health value is greater in eating raw onions. Recently when I was travelling for over two months and ate food  mostly where there was no turmeric and onions, I caught flu and Bronchitis. I am 73 and had only once it was mild. This one was like going to hell and back. In a poor country like India where over 500 million earn less than $1.5 a day  and hygiene conditions are very poor but the life expectancy is 60+ years for the nation .  The turmeric and onion proof is there !I think it’s better to eat raw onion. But the problem is the smell of the mouth that we may have after. Is there any good way to get rid of that smell? Thank your very much for the article.My almost 3 year old came down with the flu. Typically when we get sick it is on for 5-7 days of misery. She is 3, obviously she is always in my face, especially when sick ( sneezing, coughing, runny nose on me, etc.).  She slept in bed with me on day 1 of the flu and for the first time I had an onion sliced on a plate in the room with us, not only was she sleeping through the night, I woke up with zero symptoms for once. I believe there is something with that.  I did do other things as before as well  such as homiopathic vitamins from natural grocers, vitamin c, etc. But this was the only time her symptoms are gone on day 2. As written before, doesn’t hurt to try.  All of our bodies are different and respond to things differently.  The best part you are not taking your child to the doc and loading on “chemical” prescription drugs.This campaign against vaccination is reprehensible.  Vaccination saves millions of lives the world over, and has given us security where before there was none (and still isn’t in many countries).
People in at risk groups (young, old, poor health ,and any other at-risk and special groups research points to, like health workers) should seek the flu vaccination.
For the rest, good nutrition, healthy lifestyle and hygeine including eating lots of vegatables (of which onions will be one) will probabaly suffiice.
No harm in investigating folk remedies, some are effective, some are myths: vaccination used to be one of these- turned out to be true. But don’t subsitute hearsay and sloppy wishful thinking for evidence.Look, Everything we put into our bodies do something for us. that’s how we learned about modern meds.
the best way to be healthy is to eat what you need. and what you lack.
Onions are good for you. they do help fight thigns. i’m sure if you sit them next to your bed they will be fine but if you eat them along with garlic you will notice your cold will not last long. I tested this myself. and i beleive what happens to me over any website.
more so when the website uses books from random un creditied authers.  look at their refrencesi was sick on sunday had a very important meeting on tuesday. ate 2 full raw cloves of garlic.. and i was 100% better when i woke up.
the only issue i hated was for 2 days even during my metting i stunk.. like garlic the stuff was oozing out my pours at least the smell .. i took 4 showers and it was still there. but i’d rather smell like garlic then be sick..
onion and garlics are in the same family sort of so i’m sure both do wonders for our health.Eat an apple!Roger, it is even more reprehensible to advocate blindly following the mandates of vested interest groups and filling your children with aluminium and mercury laden vaccines when there is no proof that they work and mounting evidence they do much harm!Well, my goodness they were already sick. This is preventative remedies that have been around longer than doctors that is being talking about. My son use to get sick every time the school year began. I would fix a garlic or onion tea and remind him to drink water during the day. He went the whole school year without getting sick.what a stupid thing to say. Nature heals! It’s obvious people are what theyeat!–Look around. I thank God for articles like these. This article discusses prevention as well as healing! Love it!!! Onions & garlic are fabulous; don’t forget about celery!!—-Very healthy as well!i would ask a doctor but would assume ok for young children!I love DIY and home remedies.. if i dont have to leave the house and go to the doctor where there is probably some young kid you really does have somethinng bad and contagious im gonna stay home and read up on what i can do at home from my kitchen. i had a sore throat and was getting sick.. i gargled salt water and sucked on garlic for a day and felt much better the next day rather than a week. that beind said, i also firmly believe in vaccines! we almost had some things, like polio, wipped out next to no reports. now we have parents not getting thier children the shots, which you need to go to a public school, and more cases of these illnesses are popping up! so i say get your shots but if you can cut back your sick time from the common cold or flu just by cutting up some onions and no one else in my house gets sick, i have a family of 8, i am all for not going to the docters and expose myself and my kids to something worse.Thank you. Amen to that. We depend entirely too much on vaccines and many times they do more harm than good, and , as you say , many have heavy metals in them.Onions do absorb odors such as paint odors, and others too.I would normally agree with you but having been to the doctors three times for a flu that I’ve had for nigh on two months that just wouldn’t clear up I decided to finally take my mother’s old wive’s remedy and try it, skeptical though me and my partner were, I was desperate enough. Went to sleep with cut onions next to the bed and woke up in the morning symptoms completely gone. Coincidence? Pyscho-somatic? Perhaps. But I say this: what harm can it possibly do to try these things, and let those with the curiosity stand to benefit? I wish I had been less judgmental and dismissive, but my digestive system completely shot with two rounds of anti-biotics that did absolutely nothing and almost saw me admitted to hospital I have found out a certain mind is a closed mind and a dangerous one at that. Perhaps you could try being less sanctimonious, not all of us know everything. CheersWill Valida onions work?try it yourself, then you will know. 🙂 Its a couple of onions, not like its $1000s of dollars in research. Next time you get sick, try it out! If they actually read the page on WHO website, they would find that symptoms of the common cold lie under “Folk Medicine” and it is clearly stated “not supported by experimental or clinical data”All you folks are doing is initiating the placebo effect. While you may feel better….you really aren’t.”
So remember to wash your hands, especially before eating or scratching your eyes. ” — why would one wish to scratch his or her eye?If you were studying microbiology, you would know that flu vaccination is pointless, because the Influenza virus keeps on mutating and the flu vaccines they make, ain’t altered. so for your information stop wasting your money of flu vaccination. it’s pointless.Can’t wait for polio to come back so that once you see  your progeny living out their lives in an iron lung you may reflect a little more objectively on what vaccines have done for humanity.I’m left of center, but this utterly half-baked unsubstantiated and self-reinforcing gossip does not pass muster. If you’ve been to India or Nepal you would see for yourself the ravages that some entirely preventable diseases still have on the population.e.g. “conditions are very poor but the life expectancy is 60+ years for the nation . The turmeric and onion proof is there”Yeah. It’s the onion. Maybe. But the reasoning here is about as loose as most of those poor people’s stool.I used to think the ultimate threat to civilization could be conscribed to the Right, but clearly I’ll have to rethink that…finally, a skeptic. Have you heard about ear candling? another “homiopathic” [sic] cure. So much of this is sheer fraud and if you look at how outfits like this operate, it’s basically a ponzi scheme, like Amway or llama farming. Yes, sign up for a clinic, or better yet, pour thousands of dollars into meaningless acronyms after your name like for homeopathic this or that.anecdotal gibberish people! This is the same reasoning that leads some folks in less educated parts of Africa to seek out albino organs as a cure for AIDS. Really! They’re grandmother swore by it!  Eating albino ears give you an homeopathic immunity boost! Or the Chinese with their rhino horn aphrodiasics! Or having sex with a virgin will cure AIDS! Botunga the witch doctor swears by it!Again, I’m left of center, but coming across this nonsense among supposedly educated people is MINDBLOWING!Truly no hope for the species…So without the onion your recovery from a sore throat would take more than 48 hours? Did you also watch cartoons that day? It could have been the cartoons.GOD are people really so GULLIBLE? Clearly, by the alarming sincerity of these posts.I LOVE onions. They are nutritious. They keep you healhy in that respect. But people here are treating them like magic crystals.These is just a step away from such sites that claims Mangosteen cures cancer! Yes! send $50 for your informational brochure! Find out what the pharmaceuticals don’t want you to know!I mean sweet Jeeezus… were you all born yesteday?Roger, I used to think like you. I was a sheep, until I broke away from the herd and snapped out of it! Western “medicine” is POISON, and I say this as a Canadian. I can’t tell you how many unnecessary and dangerous drugs I’ve taken for most of my life, on a regular basis, to treat symptoms that could have been prevented in the first place. But society is all about a quick band-aid solution. True medicine is found in nature, it harms no one, young or old, or in between!Have you ever even tried it, Mark?? Bet you haven’t. Bet you’re afraid. Well let me tell you, I’m going on day two, and my symptoms are almost gone. I’ve been into natural remedies for almost a decade now, but these results are unlike anything I’ve ever experienced, and I’ve experienced great results the natural route already. Next time you are sick, I dare you to try cutting a single onion, and placing it by your bed while you sleep, instead of going for the band-aid solution (pharmaceutical drugs) that we’ve been conditioned to use. If you can’t even try something that’s out of the box, I feel sorry for you because you are the gullible one, A TRUE SHEEP.Raw is always best.flu vaccinations that, in my opinion, will do more harm than good.   Wow, the whole Medical world must not know what they are doing then.  It sure is YOUR opinion.Well put Andrea, I came down with a cold about a week ago, tried several remedies, went to the store today bought an onion sliced it and locked myself in my room for 4 hours and presto I feel sooo much better.Try it Xini bet you’ll sing a different tune, cause it does work.Researching do onions   help fight fluMy granddaughter’s class, and all the school, was offered the flu vaccine 3 weeks ago, and out of a class of 8, 2 got the flu shot.  Two weeks later, all of them have the flu.  Flu vaccines shed and infect not only the one getting them, but the ones who did not.  They should be outlawed!  My poor little one was sick for a week, and lost 4 pounds (from 48), and had fever for at least 5 days.  She’s still coughing and hacking.  Wish I had thought of the onions.Onions are not quite the same as cannibalism.  Do you really think it would hurt to try this?  I’ve been an RN for nearly 30 years and I can tell you, I’ve lost a lot of faith in mainstream medicine.  I rarely go to the doctor anymore, altho since I’ve quit taking vaccines and medicine, I don’t really need them much.  I just nursed my granddaughter through a bout of flu, she spent the week with me so she wouldn’t get her little brothers sick.  I’ve got a little scratchy throat, but no fever, don’t feel bad.  AND, Im gonna cut up an onion tonight, put some in my socks and some beside my bed.  I’ll let you know if it helps.Im Vegan. Im healthy because my body is not a graveyardSnopes tried to debunk the onion idea. But I have to say, I recently used this method after getting sick and the outcome has definitely worked! Great home remedy.Author lost credit when he said flu shots do more harm than good.That is the point they do.  It is all about the money.This is an extremely bigoted statement. Just pointing that out for everyone here.Tom, do you see Small pox anywhere in the US?  Seriously, go outside right now and find 10 fucking people with small pox.  Can’t find any? That’s cause vaccines fucking ELIMINATED THE DISEASE IN THE US. You want your fucking proof.  Small pox. Polio. Rubella.  You fucking idiot. Sad part is you probably lived through some of those diseases and you’re still blind. Look at you talking about proof and evidence but completely ignoring actual scientific articles and the impact that vaccines have had on public health.  The article they cited by the British Journal of Nutrition showed no evidence that people who eat onions have better health. In fact, the entire thing was on in vitro (in a test tube). AND the article talked about the low potency and poor selectivity of thiosulfinates and how it’s so difficult to keep an effective concentration in your blood. But, I guess you would have know all this if you bothered to read anything outside a random website that supports your vendetta against effective preventative medicine.Btw the article they cited from the LA times was written in the 1900’s.  In 1900 the life expectancy was 47 years old. You’re trying to take health advice from these people.They don’t absorb odors… They are much more pungent than the odors. If you put a skunk in the room and let it spray, you won’t smell paint either. GuaranteedMark Miller you’re a know it all, who knows s**t all!! Ill tell you that for free!I believe you need a balance of the world the healing world of doctors and the healing power of nature and what it has to offer and the healing though self responsibility. I think I will give the onion tea and onion in a bowl  a try 🙂THEY DO MUCH MORE HARM> THEY ARE TOXIC!!!I see people are getting way too emotional about this subject but no one asked the obvious.  In this article, the written suggest one should placed an onion when going to bed.  So I asked, are those feets gonna stink like shit the next day?As we can tell, Onions have been tested for a number of issues.  “Two sets of compounds make up the majority of onions known active constituentssulfur compounds, such as allyl propyl disulphide (APDS), and flavonoids , such as quercetin . Each of these groups of compounds has multiple medicinal actions.
The sulfur compounds form a strongly scented oil, particularly the compound known as thioproanal-s-oxide or lacrimatory factor. It is responsible for the tearing many people suffer while cutting onions.18 Onion and onion oil constituents have been repeatedly shown to kill various microbes in the test tube.19 , 20 Studies have not been conducted in humans to determine whether onion is a useful antimicrobial agent.
APDS has been shown to block the breakdown of insulin by the liver and possibly to stimulate insulin production by the pancreas, thus increasing the amount of insulin and reducing sugar levels in the blood.21 Several uncontrolled human studies22 , 23 and at least one double-blind clinical trial24 have shown that large amounts of onion can lower blood sugar levels in people with diabetes . Onion does not reduce blood sugar levels in healthy nondiabetic people.25”Inhibitory Effect of Green Onion on the Growth of Aspergillus parasiticus
Because it has never been tested in regards to its benefit in fighting off the flu it would be difficult to discredit it as a natural remedy.  As you can see it has tested positively in dealing with many other negative health concerns, this would allow me to feel as if there is some validity to its over all benefit in this regard.Vaccines are big buisness, they bring allot of money to the companies that manufacture them.  So there is room for specific agendas where human health is concerned.  There have also been a number of studies that also point out the concerns with what is in a vaccine and its effects on the body.Flu vaccines have long been considered a pillar of public health in the United States. Each fall, government-sponsored awareness campaigns urge Americans to get an influenza vaccination for themselves and their family members. As recently as last year, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention expanded its flu vaccine recommendations to include everyone six months and older.Millions of people follow the advice. This flu season, U.S. manufacturers estimate they will distribute as many as 173 million doses of flu vaccine.The heavy promotion and easy access to the vaccine gives the impression that anyone who is immunized will be protected from flu. But the new analysis of flu studies by researchers in Minnesota, Wisconsin and Maryland suggests that’s not the case for many people.“We found that the vaccine was about 59 percent effective overall in individuals 18 to 65 years of age,” said Osterholm, director of the Center for Infectious Disease Research and Policy at the University of Minnesota. “Some studies had higher, some had lower.”In other words, on average, more than 40 percent of people who receive a flu vaccine get no protection from it against the flu.
I hope that this helps you, take care and be well!Of course the vaccines are altered, every year!!  The one I took in October may not help in Feb.A vaccine typically contains an agent that resembles a disease-causing
microorganism, and is often made from weakened or killed forms of the
microbe, its toxins or one of its surface proteins.  It does not “shed & infect” others.
Hmmmm….vaccines should be outlawed?  So, we can bring back Polio, measles, etc. that used to kill millions of Americans?While i certainly believe that prevention and healthy living is the best course, this anti-vaccintion trend is totally irresponsible.This is sooooooo wrong in so many ways! Sliced onions scattered around the house has ZERO effect in warding of viruses. NO plant attracts the “cold virus” or any other viris, into the vegetable! Ingesting the onion in food and soups will help, but scattering raw onions around will do nothing but give you a stinky house! FYI – There is NO supporting information from the WHO about spreading sliced raw onions around the house! This is nothing more the ancient witchcraft! Shame on you to portray this sham is medically accepted. WRONG!VEGANS are the MOST MISERABLE PEOPLE on this lovely planet.My personal findings indicate
that people who get into this vegan c/trap are just miserable and full of envy
and generally hungry all the time. Food and Mood go together….and hence vegans
are always in a foul jealous mood as we gorge on delicious food in front of
them. Vegans are the dietary-muslims of our times. Rabid ,stupid and useless
for anything except telling other people their stupid humbug and socially damaging ideas as facts.VEGANS are the MOST MISERABLE PEOPLE on this lovely planet.LMAO…..this is funny…this Doc is a quack!!ok for those of you who haven’t tried home remedies but yet your on here saying they don’t work your stupid. doctors are not going to say just get an onion and slice it because they cant make any money like that. If you haven’t noticed this whole country has gone political. of course i don’t have proof but i guarantee there is a cure for HIV/AIDS but the government and doctors cant make money curing people they make their money treating people for something that cant be cured. the government put out polio,there is a cure for cancer but doctors pharmaceuticals  insurance companies ect. cant make money if there’s a simple cure .im not an educated man but im not a dunbass either. money makes the world go around. don’t put down the onion if you haven’t tried it.No the medical world does not know what they are doing. I know from first hand. 5 years of going to doctors, having my top rib removed, discs in my neck fused together, and then told I had fibromiagia, when it was really Lyme disease. The damage that was done because doctors were “practicing” medicine on me and did not know what they were doing will last with me for the rest of my life. The way I found out what I had and have been able to get some of my life back was without main stream medicine. Natural medicine is so much better for us, and less side effects.If you can’t see the value in this statement, you deserve all that you get, and to live without all that you can’t acquire. Dumb, stupid and ignorant are all self replicating, however Darwin  will reward you.people have died from shots and others have acquired irreversible conditionsI like that- “Don’t put down the onion if you haven’t tried it!”Raw is always better, but onion soup will have a lot of its properties in the broth. mmmmmmmmm 😛please help me to thank DR.SAMBOLA for removing HIV sickness in my life,am from  Senegal and i have been sick HIV for 9years and i have been visiting hospital for  medical check up all to know are vain .it got to a point it got to a point  where by i started visiting herbalist for herbs yet the sickness was still  distorying my body system there was no changes.i all way share tears from  morning till night cos there was no trace of what cause the sickness,medical  doctors was unable to detect any thing that was wrong with me and herbalist  still try on their own but nothing to write home about.the sickness grow to a  stage that i was unable to stand-up on my own except the support of any member  of my family and dearth refused to take me away from this painful sickness.one  day my either sister who live in united state of America (USA)came with an  email and phone number of DR.SAMBOLA that the man have spiritual power that he  different problems like this and the one that is even worst than this and i  never believed my sister email DR.SAMBOLA about the problem.and DR.SAMBOLA said  there is no problem that all we need to do is to perform some sacrifice and  cast negative spell off him in his shrine yet i never believed DR.clifford so  after performing all the sacrifice DR.SAMBOLA told my sister in 7days time i am  going to be heal from this sickness that he has cast out negative spell off me  and he has pay 7 sacrifice in seven junction.did you believed that on the 4th  day i stand-up on my own to walk without the support of anybody ,before the 7th  days i regain all my power in fact i was physically fit.please help me to thank  DR.SAMBOLA for removing sickness in my life please if you want to contact him  if  you have any kinds of problem he can help you to solve it okay or you have a problem in your marriage here is the email   once again thank you DR.SAMBOLA  .EMAIL You referenced the World Health Organization when informing us about the flu fighting properties of Onions. The report you reference actually says there is no scientific support for the use of onions in fighting flu, that it is simply an old tradition.
It does say that onions have antibacterial properties, but flu is a virus so wouldn’t be affect by this.
Similarly you reference the BMC when talking about quercetins healthyproperties. The BMC actually says
Bioflavonoids, such as quercetin, have recently emerged as a new class of chemotherapeutic drugs for the treatment of various cancer types, but are marred by their low potency and poor selectivityBasically, they’re very ineffective. Hope this clears up any confusion.
Thanks. MattHmmmm. It always seems impossible until it’s done.your clearly are not a christian.fur shure madman – go get MORE!And still many thousands of more have had their lives saved by flu shots.  Hey I have an idea.  Let’s go back in time and see if people dying of smallpox or polio would have taken a vaccine if they thought it would save their life.They do much more harm?  Let’s see some actual evidence to back that one up, captain caps lock.Perhaps the onion foot pads worked for you, or perhaps your cold began to subside on its’ own…but the previous poster wasn’t talking about foot pads.  He was talking about placing onions around the house.  The thought that onions placed around the house magically draw toxins out of the air is silly.Bob13:   I still remember reading how young, healthy children were afflicted with serious, debilitating diseases AFTER being injected with these vile poisons called Vaccines.   There will always be sheeple around.  My advice:   Educate yourself!Uh-oh, you broke out the “sheeple” insult.  Everyone should take you seriously now, what with the lack of evidence you presented to back up your claim and your inability to refute anything I said.I have MCAS, Mast Cell Activation Syndrome. Dr. Afrin @ medical University of South Carolina specializes in this illness. he advised me to either buy quercetin tabs or eat more onions to help me control the mast cells and it works.Onions here I come for some major eating.Pingback: ()not true, onions never cured anything for me, I have eaten onion I left cut up and left out for 2 nights and nothing happened, been doing so for over 20yrsPingback: ()Hello everybody i am so happy to share this testimony on how Dr Molemen was able to heal me from HIV Disease, well i was detected positive on 23th may 2013, and ever since i have been looking for a way to treat and cure this disease from me, but all ways i try there was no solution, few weeks ago i saw a testimony of some people on how Dr Molemen was able to cure them from HIV disease, still on i heard about it on media when a young lady also gave her testimony about this same Dr, well left with no hope i message Dr Molemen telling him all my problem, he told me what we where going to do, that he was going to send me a portion which i am going to take, and after which i took this herb portion he sent to me, he told me to go back to the hospital for check up and after i have done that i should come and tell him the good news result, at first when i saw the message i was so shock and still did not believed i will be cured, well friend to make my story short i am HIV negative now after many time of sorrow, i am Negative, and my sickness are gone, i thank God for leading me to this man….
you can email him on (drmolemenspiritualtemple@gmail.com) or call him on +2347036013351, he can be of help to you on any problem..
 Sir may God Bless You.Bob613 is a troll*I want to share this wonderful testimony to the people who are in the same
problem that i was before i meant dr odumodu. i was living with HIV for the
past 2 years, just last month as i was browsing on the internet about this
deadly disease cure and i saw a testimony of a lady who was describing how
she was been cured and she was testifying of how she was cured from HIV by
dr odumodu and i decided to also email this man and tell him about my
problem and as i did that he told me to send him some of my personal
details which i did and then he told me to wait for one week. After one
week he told me to go for another HIV test, which i did and to my greatest
suppress i was confirmed negative. all thanks be to dr odumodu and if you
know that you are in this same problem email him now on
(drodumoduspiritualpower@gmail.com ). and
i strongly believe that he will help you just as he did mine. wish you good
luck.*Do you just drink the brothBack in my country, when someone got a “cold” or Flu, they will chopped an onion ( mostly shallot) and mixed it with coconut oil and massage our body with it, they believe to make your body warm and make you will better, so far it works for me.Oh btw I am for IndonesiaBtw I am from Indonesiala miel no está soñando día es una realidadI am not one to get the flu often, but when I do…..it is terrible.  Once in my late twenties, with two young children I got very sick with it.  No time off for mother’s, I got desperate and remembering my father saying how onions helped I ate half, or a bit more, of a large brown onion. Hey, I was desperate remember? While I’m suggesting that no one do this -ever- as I had inherited my father’s “cast iron” stomach and it gave me a bad case of indigestion, after the stomach cramps went away I miraculously was flu free!  This was plenty to convince me that it was better than medicine for me.  I’ve fixed myself sandwiches with raw onion slices (this I endorse) when ever even a head cold hits since.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()He only mentioned the flu vaccine not any of the others. Chill out. Every year I got flu shots and got the flu soon after. This year I didn’t get it and I’m just fine. Hmm. I’m all for science but not everything is true out there. 🙂 Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()The Flu vaccine does nothing to prevent the flu..it may work for only one or two strains,but useless against most and can make you super sick..Vaccines are dangerous and are a multi millpond dollar Industry..of course its going to be pushed by pharmacy and Doctors(My Uncle,by the way is a top Virologist and is wary of most Vaccines!!)typo “Multimillion”You won’t know until you try using onions to clear rooms of germs. Beats the lysol/clorox wipes and sprays…less expensive AND it worksNever had a flu shot. Now age 80. Husband worked in a research lab making Symatrel..years ago. Told me never to get a flu shot. Let your body do the healing…you don’t want to know what goes into a flu shot.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()How soon all the uninitiated forget about all the virus causing illnesses that plagued mankind for thousands of years!!!…polio for example killed and crippled millions before the vaccine was developed…All of you “nay sayers” keep your “unvaccinated” children away from mine!!! You are the cause of future mutations…giving the virus a chance to kill and cripple again!!! Your so called “beliefs” are not based on scientific fact but on conjecture…speculation…fear and just plain ignorance!!!…Roger is 100% correct and all of you are 100% wrong!!!…BTW…no one…let me repeat that…NO ONE is telling you to stop eating or leaving cut onions around the house…hopefully it provides some benefits…but DO NOT EXPECT ME TO RELY ON IT!!!Please…Let your “Uncle” speak for himself!!!…how about enlightening the rest of us by informing us which of these “most Vaccines” your “Uncle” is “wary” of???!!!Also…you state “vaccines are dangerous”…that is an all encompassing statement that leads the uninitiated reader (including yourself) to believe that none are worthwhile or effective…what is your basis for such a generalized claim…especially when it contradicts your “top Virologist Uncle”…who you stated only that he “is wary of most Vaccines”…does “most” mean “all” in your world…are “you” too a “top Virologist” like your “Uncle”???!!!Let me tell you what the “REAL DANGER” is:…uninformed…CRACKPOTS” like yourself and the other negative vaccine commenters here that try to dissuade people from protecting themselves and their children with nonsense and lies based on nothing more than some unsubstantiated “conspiracy theory” and superstition…if all these “folk remedies” actually worked no “Vaccines” would ever have been needed!!!Great point!!!So much “evidence” but all you “nay sayers” are just “too busy” to provide any!!!…Right???!!!Who…what…where…when???!!!  I don’t want to have to rely on what you “remember reading”…how about some concrete evidence!!!Now Bob613…don’t you know that requiring “facts” and “evidence” is just the kind of things that make you a “sheepie”???!!!…insults like being a “sheepie” always carry the day when it is pronounced by a “superior” intellect like Emily27…who relies on her “steel trap” memory about something she read somewhere…at some time by someone!!!Who…what…where…when???Bob613…if they can’t refute what you say with logic and facts…the uninitiated will routinely use “insults” instead!!!Best post here!!!I don’t take anything for a cold…mine was over in a day and a half…you have no idea how long your cold would have lasted…with or without an onion!!!Totalitarian comments (Roger is 100% right and you are all 100% wrong) reveal your bias and inability to consider other options. Pretty sure this is not a 100% black or white issue.“Donotjump”…My comments have NOTHING to do with being “Totalitarian”…my statements have EVERYTHING to do with CONTESTING the “uninitiated” statements being made by others that claim “vaccines” are “bad and/or harmful” without a “shred” of supporting evidence/documentation…!!!How is 100% disagreeing with those “generalizations” about vaccines being harmful being “Totalitarian”..???…I recognize that “vaccines” come with risks…I am not advocating that everyone must be inoculated regardless of the consequences to that person…(now THAT would be “Totalitarian”!!!!)…my position is that before you make a statement that “vaccines are harmful” and you advocate for not being vaccinated that YOU PROVIDE OBJECTIVE DOCUMENTATION/PROOF TO SUBSTANTIATE YOUR CLAIMS!!!!…which then leads to people making informed decisions based on FACTS rather than decisions predicated on ASSUMPTIONS or SPECULATION!!!!…In the future, I highly recommend that you take the time to understand the words you use before you use them incorrectly!!!!You are correct eating onions is not the same as cannibalism…but the concept of eating an onion or an albino ear to cure an illness is!!!…both are based merely on subjective uninitiated conjecture and speculation without a shred of objective proof to support the assertion!!!…but by all means try onions as a cure for whatever ailment is afflicting you…but don’t belittle my opinion because I disagree with you when you cannot produce any legitimate proof to back your claims except what you “think” helped you because you ate an onion or put an onion in your shoe!!!…But your claims may be followed by someone to their detriment when that person could have actually benefited from a “true” scientifically proven fact based medical treatment!!!!No, it may not.  If you get the flu vaccine each year, it stays in the body so perhaps something you got several years ago will save your life.You have probably never seen polio, severe measles, which can cause brain damage,  small pox,  or a time without antibionics.  Take them if necessary and continue with all the other good remedies.Agree.Please show the facts.Good genes.