  According to the Center for Human Nutrition at UCLA’s David Geffen School of Medicine, evidence overwhelmingly supports the health benefits of adding berries to your diet.  Frequently cited as fabulous sources of antioxidants and vitamins, nearly anyone can benefit by including more berries in their diet.  Raspberries, strawberries, and mulberries are great, but if you’re looking for something new, consider trying maqui berries!      Maqui berries are a product of the Aristotelia chilensis plant, which grows wild in Chile and Argentina. The plant produces delicious and highly nutritious berries that have generated a lot of attention due to the health-supporting compounds they contain. The subject of modern research and hundreds of years of traditional use, maqui berries, when compared to other berries, are the standout winner as one of the richest sources of antioxidants available. The berries, which are a deep, rich, vibrant purple color, get their color from a pigment called anthocyanin. Much more than just a source of color, anthocyanin is resistant to redness and responsible for much of the antioxidant power in maqui berries. In South American traditional medicine, maqui has been used to address symptoms of diarrhea and fever. Indigenous communities in Chile have used the leaves of the plant to dress wounds. Why? Long used as an astringent, research has confirmed the plant has cleansing properties. Berries, such as acai, goji, and mulberries, are perhaps among the most likely to be grouped into the “superfood” category. Maqui berries are no exception and I recommend adding them to your diet. Maqui berry juice is available, so are dried berries. Additionally, many nutritional supplements and healthy foods contain maqui berries as an ingredient. Have you tried maqui berries? Leave a comment and let us know your opinion.
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.Maqui is a very unique berry. A Chile-based South Korean company has recently developed the most powerful and effective antioxidant and anti-aging formula worldwide. The product is called MAQUI5000 and is a combination of maqui and grape extracts, produced with proprietary special processes designed for potent concentration. Their fresh maqui berries are sent to Italy where they isolate the best 2% molecules in terms of antioxidant power and quality; their grape extract is imported from California where they developed a technology to reach a very high concentration of natural polyphenols (over 70%). Each capsule of Maqui 5000 contains the antioxidant power of 685 grams of blueberries and the polyphenols content of 650 grams of grapes at the same time.Whenever I get the chance, I buy at least a kilo of fresh
maqui at our local grocery. Otherwise, I’d settle for the maqui powder for a morning
cup of tea.  I like its subtle sweetness
and tartness. A natural way of helping me regulate my cholesterol level and provide
a good supply of vitamin C. This is one of my go to superfood when I need an extra
boost of energy.  Thanks for this
wonderful article.