  Once children start consuming solid food, life-long eating habits begin to take root. What they learn from parents, friends, and others will shape the way they eat. This means that even when a child is young, nutritional education is extremely important for laying the groundwork for their habits and health. And, the evidence is clear, children who consume a nutritious diet at a young age are likely to stick with it and have a greater chance of avoiding health problems later on in life. There is no question that a vegan diet, void of animal products, , and processed junk, can provide the full spectrum of nutrients that active, growing bodies need. To help remove the guesswork, here are 10 great vegan foods for your child!      Carrot sticks are a great snack! Loaded with beta-carotene, carrots are a great choice for promoting eye health and skin integrity.   Carrots are an excellent source of  and offer protection against the damaging effects of free radicals. Vitamin A is a fat-soluble vitamin, so consuming the vegetable with a nut butter or some type of healthy, unrefined oil (olive or ) is helpful for increasing absorption.Peanut allergies are common in children and more people are turning to peanut butter alternatives. Almond butter, a more nutritious, tastier nut butter, is quickly becoming a favorite to many. Parents like it because it offers a dense source of calories for their growing, active children. Also, almond butter contains a good source of , calcium, and protein. Vitamin E is a fat-soluble vitamin and acts as a potent antioxidant that supports neural health and brain development.   and moderate levels of protein are helpful for increasing bone density, a great benefit for developing children.   Oranges are packed with vitamin C, a nutrient responsible for collagen synthesis. Collagen is essential for muscle development, making  something every kid needs.  It’s also an incredibly important vitamin for maintaining the quality and strength of the immune system.  Children are often more susceptible to sickness, especially when they begin to socialize more during school and extracurricular activities.    This kid-friendly fruit provides a good source of magnesium and  — nutrients essential for growth and nerve function. Bananas are also an excellent source of vitamin C and B6, both of which are necessary for physical and mental development.  While bananas may not be the most nutrient-dense food on the planet, kids love its easy, natural wrapper and sweet taste.    When it comes to giving your child a nutritious meal, you can’t go wrong with vegetables. The old image of a whiney kid not wanting to eat his Brussels sprouts doesn’t have to be true.  that are roasted, grilled, sautéed in olive oil, or even served raw can be more appealing to children of all ages compared with mushy, canned varieties. Plus, fresh vegetables retain more of their nutritional value, offering an advantage over canned alternatives.    Like bananas, strawberries,  are very popular with children. They contain very little sugar and are an excellent source of vitamin C, K, calcium, and magnesium — nutrients that are important for bone health.     “An apple a day keeps the doctor away!” Apples are a powerful fruit shown to promote skeletal muscle and .  They’re a good source of fiber and promote regularity. Be aware, however, that apple juice is not as good as eating an apple. Apple juice is often pasteurized and contains very little of its original nutrient content. It’s largely sugar water that can aggravate blood sugar levels and energy issues in both kids and adults.    Whether roasted or raw, these vitamin-packed seeds are a wonderful vegan snack. Sunflower seeds are a good source of thiamine, or vitamin B1, a nutrient shown to promote mental acuity.  An easy-to-eat, tasty snack food,  also contain vitamin E, a powerful antioxidant. High in protein, fiber, and healthy fat, they’re great for satiating your appetite (making you feel full). Great for fueling a child for a busy afternoon.      If your child loves oatmeal, you can rest easy knowing that it’s giving them an excellent source of essential nutrients and fiber. It’s great at keeping your child full until lunch and helps them avoid hunger pangs and energy lulls. This is very important for maintaining a child’s focus in the classroom. New studies continue to examine the antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties contained in , such as vitamin E, beta-glucans, and avenathramide.  Parents should watch out for the easy-to-use, but less-than-nutritious oatmeal that contains a hefty amount of sugar. Also, children with Celiac disease or gluten intolerance (and probably everyone, really) should only choose oats that have been certified gluten free.    Did you know avocados are considered a fruit? High in monounsaturated fats,  may support brain health and mood — benefits that play a crucial role in supporting a child’s academic performance.  Studies suggest that avocados may even help reduce the risk for developing diabetes.  Considering that diabetes in children is a rising concern, adding avocado to your child’s diet may be a great strategic move!    It’s important to introduce your kids to healthy foods when they’re young; it really will lay the foundation for their future choices. With that in mind, you should also be cautious about going for the quick, simple options that are so many processed, pre-packaged foods. It’s easy to just throw some frozen glop in the  and it doesn’t take much time, something that’s a premium for many parents, but it’s just not a good idea. Plan ahead and provide a few options so they can be involved in choosing healthy foods that they enjoy, without becoming too dogmatic about what they can and can’t eat.    Does your child enjoy healthy food? Leave a comment and share the favorites in your house!
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()