Golden berries, also known as Physalis peruviana, is South American fruit that’s highly concentrated with nutrients and bioactive compounds. In Colombia, the delicious golden berry is an important international export and prominent local food.  The plant has been used for centuries in traditional medicine, often against jaundice.  While the evidence for golden berry application for jaundice remains anecdotal, research has found other positive health benefits associated with the fruit.          Resembling a golden raisin but with a flavor that’s more sweet and tart, golden berries are extremely  with easily absorbable bioavailable compounds. Golden berries contain linoleic and oleic acid, two essential fatty acids that aid in insulin sensitivity and fat oxidation.  There is also some research suggesting the fatty acids’ effectiveness for promoting good health in general.      Compared to other small berries, golden berries are higher in protein and vitamin A and they’re much lower in sugar. They’re also loaded with antioxidants. Phytochemical screening has revealed an abundance of flavonoids as well.  Flavonoids are specific antioxidants that promote cardiovascular health and other benefits.    Plants used in traditional medicine have drawn the attention of researchers who seek to develop new therapeutic agents for a wide range of diseases. In folk medicine, golden berries have many applications and many cultures regard golden berries as a mild diuretic that .  Other ways that golden berries encourage good health include…    Starch and sugar are broken down in the body through an , a process that can increase blood sugar levels. Studies suggest that golden berries may be helpful for inhibiting the enzyme responsible for this reaction and preventing the breakdown of starchy carbohydrates; thus controlling the impact carbohydrates have on blood sugar.      Illness and irritation can cause redness and swelling in the body; it’s indicative of many diseases.  Research conducted by the National University of Colombia confirms that golden berries offer potent activity against systemic redness and swelling. Golden berries present an immunomodulatory effect which directly (and indirectly) blocks the affected mediators.  In layman’s terms, golden berries fight redness in the body by reducing the impact of proteins that cause the redness.     In late 2013, Egypt’s National Research Center’s Department of Medicinal and Aromatic Plants reported that golden berries may offer potent  and kidney benefits, possibly protecting against the “scarring” of liver tissue.  Liver health is especially important, as it’s the body’s main detoxifying organ. Its anti-redness and antioxidant compounds may be effective for protecting other organs, including the lungs. In fact, preliminary research is even examining the potential for a primary compound in golden berries, 4 beta-Hydroxywithanolide, as a potential therapy for lung cancer.    There’s no question that research into golden berries has uncovered much to think about concerning their positive effects on human health. However, one of the best reasons to snack on golden berries is because, like  and , they’re a delicious and healthy snack! They’re loaded with nutrients and antioxidants and go great on a salad, in trail mix, or even by themselves. Their sweet, tart taste is unique; they’re a perfect example of a fruit that’s even better than candy!    Golden berries are not among the most common foods in America, however, and you might have to look a little harder for them. Have you tried them? Do you like them? Leave a comment and share!  
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.i had a neighbor give me a small plant in the spring.  She told me it was a golden berry plant and i had never heard of it.  I have lots now sitting in my fruit bowl and was just wondering what to do with them.  I’m so excited I have such an amazing food growing in my back yard.  We have just been eating them off the ground.  I would love to find some recipes for for them.I like to add them to salads but I guess you could add them to cookies, oatmeal, bread… experiment some and let us know what happens!I like them by themselves with a little bit of Himalayan sea salt sprinkled on topI also like putting them in my trail mix.I think they taste fantastic. I am having them on toast with peanut butter and hemp seeds. Their tartness goes terrifically with peanut butter!Pingback: ()A few months ago, I found and bought a 16.5 oz can at WalMart, sitting in the fridge till this morning.
I ate the whole can.
From Equator, packed and brought to the US by Roland, in NY.
I’ll find out what they’ve  done to me in the next 12 to 24 hours, if not sooner.They are tart alright, they make my face pucker up like a pickle!Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Found dried golden berries at Costco and throw a handful in my porridge each morning with dried blueberries.  They re-hydrate well and adds a nice sweetness to my cereal.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()just got home from Safeway and Golden Berries were on sale!  I picked up a package, just out of curiosity.  They’re tasty.  Safeway…huh!..such unexpected enlightenment!  I found them just down the street after all.They are like the fruit version of sweet tarts.Eating them all at one time isn’t the most efficient way to utilize the benefits of golden berries, you’re suppose to eat them over a longer course of time to have food or supplements be beneficial to the body, you literally just wasted most of those berries, no biggee though, just make em last next time, as with anything nutritional.I love them. I found them fresh at an organic store near my home.  I noticed that the particular company that packaged them had nutrition info on the package that said they had 39% of vitamin D in a 3.5 oz serving as well as others.  That’s interesting because golden berries never appear on a list as a source of vitamin D.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Gooseberries are saving mePingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Found some in Nelson, BC dried at the Kootenay Co-op.  Very good.  They are in the bulk section.  Also found Mullberries there too.  Also like them.Just discovered these little wonders…I love their tart taste..they are my new snack, along with mixed nuts.Picked them up On sale thinking they were orange cherry tomatoes.tart and tasty. I am impressed with their nutritive value. Put them is a fruit salad. I’ll buy them again!