      Curcuma longa, better known as turmeric, is an ancient spice traditionally appreciated by the peoples of India, Asia, and the Middle East for use in cuisine and beauty applications.  has a recognizable, vibrant yellowish orange hue and is loaded with health supporting nutrients; curcuminoids are perhaps the most notable. As the most active phytochemicals in turmeric root, curcuminoids offer powerful health-promoting effects through , neuroprotective, and immune system boosting activity.             Turmeric offers many positive health benefits, especially to prostate health. A double-­blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial published in the  cited  of curcumin in prostate cancer patients. Furthermore, of two patient groups, one that received the curcumin supplement and one that received placebo, the group receiving the curcumin supplementation showed significant, long lasting, improvement in urinary ease and frequency.         Another study investigated the potential effects of curcumin on  in­ vitro. When curcumin was administered to the cancer cells, researchers observed a notable increase in cancer cell death as the curcumin concentrations increased.     Keep in mind that these results, though exciting, are still preliminary and it’s premature to call turmeric a cure or treatment of any sort for cancer. However current understanding is that a combination of inflammation and high androgenicity increase the risk for developing prostate cancer.  Some research suggests that curcumin may down regulate androgen receptors and soothe ­inflammation, actions that have some wondering if it may help fight the rate of cancer cell development.          A study published in the December 2012 issue of Italy’s  evaluated the effect of a curcumin supplement taken by persons with BPH (enlarged prostate). Sixty­-one patients were divided into two groups for the 6-month study. The results showed that the group who received curcumin supplementation experienced fewer urinary infections and less incontinence than the control group. Significant improvements in urinary stream and quality­ of­ life were also reported.  Researchers surmise that curcumin may actually help the body inhibit the compounds that cause prostate enlargement.         This is worth mentioning… A 12-week study published in 2014 used animal models to compare the effects of Viagra and curcumin. You can scour the details for yourself, but, in short, at the conclusion of the 12-week study, curcumin supplementation had produced a notably improved erectile response… making many wonder if curcumin may support erectile function?         There are a lot of turmeric supplements out there, a lot. We recently released a  that I’m really proud of; we’ve gotten a lot of really good feedback. I’d like to hear some more feedback from people who’ve made turmeric part of their nutritional protocol What benefits have you experienced? Leave a comment below and share your experience!      
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.I thought it was my imagination, but I know it made  me feel much better after a couple of weeks, I mean I woke up with erections daily, for real. Also it relieved pains from arthritis due to occupational injuries. Hey it’s not cheap real pure curcumin is the best , honest.Where can, I buy Organic Turmeric?It would be nice if you gave the effective dose.Hi all.
I sprinkle it on food with coarse fresh ground pepper at least
once a day. (About 1 tsp.) I really enjoy the taste of both so
I look forward to eating them on food .
I’ve also pleasantly have discovered after a month or so that I no longer wake up in the middle of the night to go to the bathroom.MUST READ: HOW I GET CURE OF PSA WITH HERBAL MEDICINE!I was diagnosed of Prostate Enlarged disease in 2013 and I have tried all I can to get cured but all to no avail, my life was gradually coming to an end, until i saw a post in a health forum about a herbal doctor from Africa who prepares herbal remedy to cure all kind of diseases including Postate Enlarged disease, at first i doubted if it was real but with much pressure i decided to give it a try, when i contact this herbal doctor via his email, he prepared an a herbal portion and sent it to me via courier service, when i received this herbal portion, he gave me step by step instructions on how to apply it, After i applied it as instructed, i was cured of this deadly disease within 20-21days of usage, I could not urinate before but after i took the herbal cure as he instructed i can now urinate very well as normal before, I am now free from the deadly disease, all thanks to Dr Sabi. Contact this great herbal doctor via his email,  or call +2348168257144.Good luck…hey you all! I recommend a good and natural supplement named alpharise! it worksMy dad tried with some supplements that have turmeric but the results were really disappointing, he was really frustrated because of this, then he went to the doctor and he was prescribed with alpharise, this is a natural supplement based on Saw Palmetto and Zinc, B9, and I know there are other ingredients but I forgot them lol, the thing is it helped him a lot. Another thing to keep on mind is if you either drink alcohol or smoke or if you do both you should try to quit doing it cuz it actually makes everything worse. I know what I am telling because my dad used to smoke a lot and that was the first thing the doctor told him. God blessI take a teaspoon of organic turmeric with a liberal mix of black pepper everyday.  After taking the turmeric for approx a month I noticed that I was getting up to pee at night a lot less.  I went from every 2-3 hours to once a night.  Also the extreme urgency has declined.  This could be all happenstance for me, but this is the best I’ve been for a long time.  Right now I’m starting on my 4th pound of turmeric, no plan to stop.