Vitamins, vitamins, vitamins. Whether we get them from our daily diet, from sunshine, or from store bought capsules or liquids, vitamins are vital to our health and to the proper functioning of our bodies.Vitamin deficiencies lead to a wide range of problems spanning from anorexia to obesity, organ malfunction, confusion, depression and fatigue.However, whether or not your vitamins are hurting you is another story. What people are not aware of is all vitamins are not created equal, and most are actually synthetic.The type of vitamins that are the most beneficial is up for debate. A healthy,  should provide a good amount of nutrients that the body needs, but supplements can help ensure that we are getting a healthy serving of specific vitamins.The problem is that many vitamin and mineral supplements are manufactured synthetically with chemicals and do not come straight from their natural sources. They are made to mimic the way natural vitamins act in our bodies. Natural vitamins are derived directly from plant material containing the vitamin, not produced in a test tube.Many synthetic vitamins lack the transporters and co-factors associated with naturally occurring vitamins because they have been “isolated.” The Organic Consumers Association emphasizes that isolated vitamins cannot be used or recognized by the body in the same way as the natural version .The natural form come in packages with other vitamins, enzymes and minerals that control the way the body recognizes, metabolizes and uses them to make what it needs.Isolated vitamins can’t always be used by the body, and are either stored until you obtain or create the nutrients required to use them effectively or are excreted. Synthetic vitamins are also devoid of necessary trace minerals and must use the body’s own mineral reserves which may lead to dangerous mineral deficiencies. More than 95% of all the vitamin supplements sold today fall in to the synthetic category.Synthetic versions of vitamins contain chemical compounds that were not meant for human consumption and do not occur in nature. Evolution has dictated that we eat the food we can gather from the earth, not the food we create in a lab.We might not always get what we’re expecting from synthetics. The synthetic version of Vitamin E is often referred to as the dl- form. The dl- form is a combination of the d-form (which, by the way, is the naturally occurring form) and the l-form. No big deal, right?    Well it might not be, except that the body doesn’t actually use the l-form- we excrete it! I must note here that this applies only to vitamins and not amino acids or sugars. Fat soluble vitamins in their synthetic form are especially dangerous because they can build up in your fatty tissues and cause toxicity. The reason that the synthetic form is more dangerous is because you get a high, concentrated serving of the vitamin rather than the amount that you would get from a food-based form.The Organic Consumers Association has published an ingredient chart to help consumers identify natural vs. synthetic vitamins. Many vitamin producers want you to believe that you are getting a “natural product” because it seems more wholesome to take “natural” vitamins.    Unfortunately, vitamins can be labeled as natural if they contain as little as 10% of the natural form of the vitamin. This means that your “natural” vitamin could contain 90% of synthetically produced chemicals! B-Vitamins and Vitamin C are also usually synthetically produced.Look for clues on your vitamin’s label that offer insight into the origin of the vitamin. The “dl” form of any vitamin is synthetic.
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.Thanks for the very informative article. Most people don’t realize the importance of ‘natural’ supplements for a healthy life and often feel complacent while taking synthetic supplements.Great article. Thanks you for sharing excellent advice and little known knowledge.Great Article, You are 100% right. I might add the importance of natural vitamins in liquid form such as Vitacerin. Liquid vitamins has a higher absorbtion rate than pills.How effective is Vitamin D in pill form comapred to Vitamin D derived from moderate exposure to sunlight?Good article, indeed. For any ordinary person tends to believe that any Vitamin itself is natural and wholesome, because it’s a vitamin. No matter what vitamin and how much you take. Unfortunately some believe that the more you take the better. But I’ve heard that it’s not good for your body to take vitamins longer than 1-2 months period. And that some vitamins are not to be combined. Is that true? A big thank you for the ingredient chart, I saved it on my computer and going to check the vitamins I take. I believe every family should consult such a chart, especially those having kids.Where can I buy natural vitamins?  I have only seen synthetic?The best vitamins are from a company called Standard ProcessI agree with you, it’s best to take vitamins that are made with natural ingredients.  I have been taking a really good natural supplement, muscadine grape seeds and they have been really beneficial to my health.  I have noticed a change in my immune system and it helps that it is loaded with a lot of natural anti-oxidants. Thank you so much for this article. So many people say “oh, I’m healthy, I take a multivitamin…” Not only is relying on vitamins an ineffective shortcut, but most people don’t even realize that many vitamins aren’t particularly powerful…Great article.  I am doing some research on the difference between synthetic vitamins and whole foods.  It is too easy to feel overconfident that we are getting the nutrients we need when taking synthetic vitamins.
Vitamin bottles list the amount of vitamins and minerals available…not what your body can absorb or actually use.
I have three boys, and have been on a quest to find a way to meet their nutritional needs.  No binders, fillers, synthetic anything…just whole food.Keep telling the world to eat whole foods!LafonAnother great article. I was totally shocked when I first found out the difference between natural and synthetic vitamins and how much harm the synthetics are actually doing to our bodies. How many people know that the vitamins they’re taking to stay healthy are actually doing more harm than good?I especially liked the ingredient chart from The Organic Consumers Association. Definitely handy.The fact that “vitamins can be labeled as natural if they contain as little as 10% of the natural form of the vitamin” just goes to show how little the USDA is looking out for us. To allow such obvious deceit is an indication that big business is more important to the USDA than our health.Wonderful article!! Unbelievable how can this be allowed it is a crime” so should we even be silly enough to believe that Osama Binladen is dead or even existed to start with? or did the war begin over oil and has he realy been shot dead or is that just an excuse to pull the troops out of the middle east now they have got what they want? so called big business has a lot to answer for- why even produce fossil fuels when we can create energy with the hydrogen cell ?? what has this world come too” and when will people power stand up and be counted? I for one are ready!hydrogen cells store energy, they are not energy magic cells.  You still have to burn the fossil fuels to get energy into the hydrogen cells.Looking to purchase natural vitaminsI wonder if perhaps we are overlooking the value of synthetics.  A great number of vitamin supplements include “synthetic” vitamins like vitamin c and the natural kind like d alpha tocopherol combined into one.Now take vitamin c for example which has been used for decades and has helped countless people.  Was Linus Pauling who popularized vitamin C wrong?  What about the countless number of doctors who use vitamin C today as an jack of all trades?  What about the hundreds of studies that demonstrate the value of vitamin C?Another successfully used “synthetic” vitamin is niacin (B3).  It has been used for decades to help treat high cholesterol, schizophrenia, and many other medical conditions.  Made famous by Dr. Abram Hoffer it is another vitamin that has huge potential especially when you consider one of the latest studies that came out.  Research Dr. Kim Green and alzheimer’s disease and you will find out the potential of “synthetic” vitamins.In short, although natural sources of fat soluble vitamins are more likely to be more active and available to the body it is a far cry to say that synthetic vitamins are not valuable or have therapeutic value.Thanks for a wonderful article. My passion in life is teaching people how to boost the nutrient value of their diets through food, so this article gave me even more to think about, thank you.what about iron supplements ?Wow, stearic acid is immunosuppressive?  And a nutritional supplement has about 5 to 10 mg of stearic acid??  THE HORROR!!!  But a chocolate bar has 5 GRAMS of stearic acid, an organic omelet 2 to three GRAMS, olive oil has about 500 mg per teaspoon.  I’m amazed I have a functioning immune system.  Wait, no, cough, cough . . ugh ooooooo.This is hard to answer in a few sentences.  The Real Truth about Vitamins and Anti oxidants by Judith DeCava is a well researched book about synthetics.   I highly recommend it.I completely disagree with you list of “Common synthetic vitamins to avoid”! You’re saying to avoid “Riboflavin”? Which is vitamin B2. Or Pyridoxine hydrochloride? Where is your supporting evidence or biological reasoning for avoiding a majority of these vitamins. Just because they are synthetic and you give it a “test tube” label, DOES NOT mean it is harmful to you. Another chiropractor “nutrionalist” trying to play “doctor” without any legitimate background aside from reading some other “nutritional” blog. What a joke.Furthermore, regarding Vitamin A acetate, one that is recommended to “avoid”.Retinyl acetate (retinol acetate, vitamin A acetate) is a natural form of vitamin A which is the acetate ester of retinol. It has potential antineoplastic and chemopreventive activities.In the United States, retinyl acetate is classified generally recognized as safe (GRAS) in the amounts used to fortify foods with vitamin A.”I truly hope people reading this article take it with a grain of salt and do some of their own research before following this so called doctor. Don’t be a sheep.Hi.. In your opinion, which is the best multivitamin supplement non synthetic? Because I looking for a good product but not synthetic.. thank you!!!anything that ends in -ate is synthetic.did you know that most of the synthetic vitamins today are made from petroleum?did you happen to find that when you researched?petroleum has all of these vitamins in itself but they are the toxic forms.watch the documentary ‘Forks Over Knifes’. you can find it on netflix. there are people who work in congress that used to be workers even CEO’s for the major food and medicine corporations whose products poison us. the food is poisoned which makes us sick.we then get drugs from a doctor which in return makes us even more sick.the pharmaceutical and healthcare industry is the richest in the world.did you know that only the government can buy stocks in pharmaceuticals??bet you didn’t. they do not care about us or our children.they are making a living off of us.the government is corrupt, our general health care doctors don’t know diddly squat but yet we praise them like they are gods.the research you have to do goes wayyyyy deeper than you thinkThe best whole food vitamins are from a company called MegaFood.The best whole food vitamins are from a company called MegaFood. You need to check them out!This article is informing the reader of the synthetic “evil twins” designed to mimic the natural vitamin. Not to avoid Vitamin E, but to avoid the synthetic dl-alpha tocopherol that is commonly used in “Vitamin E” capsules, and to obtain you daily Vitamin E from organic, whole foods, like almonds. As nature intended.
Moron.You cite no scientific evidence as to the effect of natural vitamin supplements. Yes in theory it sounds good, but where is the proven effects?I think MegaFood just feeds synthetic vitamins to fermented yeast. Read their label and then google that one ingredient that repeats at each vitamin. Whatever you want to consider “natural” is a matter of opinion. When a vitamin says “no yeast” then they used fermented soy and vice versa.I get my whole-food nutritional supplements from a company called Neo-LifeI get my nutrition supplements from a company called Neo-LifeJust wait until you find out what is happening in the food production industry. It is even more shocking than the vitamin industry.Wrong, the -ate in the name tells you that you have a chemical compound containing oxygen. It could be synthetic or natural.Wow, for some reason before you wrote this, I thought that isolating nutrients would be very toxic for consumption.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()What big pharma company are you in bed with “Yousirareafake” your comment removes the doubt anyone would have regarding your intellect.. Remember “Doctors bury their mistakes”…….. Don’t get me wrong… some science research is needed….. but guessing while using human test subjects is not for me….
 Nothing that is derived in a test tube using toxic chemicals belongs in the human body…. “Simple as that”
I suppose you support “GMO’s” in our food too…..stupid stuffPingback: ()Natural Vitamin B2 is Riboflavin-5-Phosphate.Natural Vitamin B6 is Pyridoxal-5-Phosphate.Synthetic Vitamin B9 is identified as Folic Acid. Natural Vitamin B9 is 5-Methyltetrahydrofolate as either a calcium salt or glucosamine salt.There’s are junk filled with calcium stearate and other additives and most of their products are unsuitable for vegans and vegetarians.HI, Vit D3 5000IU helps me. Higher than that I need Vit K2 with it to put Ca that is recycled into the bones and not the tissues. Sunlight may make 40,000 of Vit D in the skin from cholesterol in the skin. Not showering right away may help it form in the skin. I laughed when I first took Vit D3 (activated form) and also in the sunlight. A daily walk in the sunlight may help the immune system greatly and help intestines absorb nutrients. No gluten/dairy/soy/sugar/GMO…vitamins/good oils, LDN, detoxing may help people. No gluten/GMO corn may help intestines absorb nutrients from food/supplements. Microscopic gluten may prevent food/supplements from helping the body…not absorb them. Vit E…need mixed tocopherols . I refrigerate/freeze any oily supplement so it stays fresh and not rancid. Mercola site is good for diet/supplements/Alternative medicine information/blog. Best wishes.Pingback: ()Mannatech NutriVerus vitamins. Real vitamins from whole foods. interesting infoPingback: ()Most synthetic are only half as potent & effective as their natural counterparts, but far from harmful. You would only get half the benefits with synthetic verses natural Supplements made entirely of natural sources. To get Full Benefits of vitamins & minerals one must consume vitamin rich whole foods and take natural supplement verses Synthetic.Most synthetic are only half as potent & effective as their natural counterparts, but far from harmful. You would only get half the benefits with synthetic verses natural Supplements made entirely of natural sources. To get Full Benefits of vitamins & minerals one must consume vitamin rich whole foods and take natural supplement verses Synthetic.This is all based on biased information (synthetics don’t do more harm than good). The difference between the Synthetic and Natural is that synthetic is only half as potent and effective as natural. You still get the benefits but not the full benefits as you would with vitamins made entirely from natural sources.What about ascorbic acid with bioflavonoids?Yes, this is true. MegaFoods, and many other “whole-food” based vitamins are simply synthetic vitamins in disguise. If you see (S. cerevisiae) on the supplement facts that is the indicator.Unfortunately, Standard Process now uses isolated/synthetic vitamins in their products. Back in the 1930s this was not the case, but the company has since changed.You can see from the inclusion of vitamin A palmitate, cholecalciferol, etc in Catalyn… so it can no longer be considered “food-based” as it was in the 1930s. Unfortunately the wisdom of Dr. Royal Lee has been forgotten.1) Specific enzymes? Amylase? Protease? I think what the author is really referring to is the existance of broad spectrum vitamers which cannot be found in synthetic vitamin products. (e.g., beta-carotene vs mixed carotenoids)2) The article is not entirely accurate. Practically all synthetic vitamins can be utilized by the body, and this is actually the problem IMO. Synthetic vitamins reach all vital organs and tissues, increase liver production of cyp450, and then increase excretion of the other lesser-known vitamers. (e.g., alpha-tocopherol eliminates gamma-tocopherol)Human plasma vitamin E kinetics demonstrate rapid recycling of plasma RRR-alpha-tocopherol
Traber MG, Ramakrishnan R, Kayden HJ
Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A., 19943) Trace minerals not present in synthetic multivitamins? How about cobalt, boron, manganese, vanadium, arsenic, copper, etc.If you really want details on the difference between synthetic and plant-based vitamins, click on my profile and check out my featured blog article on vitamins.Not exactly accurate. You miss out on dozens of necessary vitamers from synthetic multivitamins. This create an imbalance in the body, which leads to a number of problems.A common misconception is that multivitamins fill nutritional gaps. The truth is, 99% of multivitamins actually create nutritional gaps, as they are completely devoid of necessary vitamers.John,I think you would be shocked at the lack of research supporting health benefits of synthetic vitamins in humans.The studies that has been done, have been very short, very small studies that start with dietary depletion of a given nutrient, followed by repletion with synthetics for several weeks until severe deficiency symptoms subside. (most of these studies where actually done on animals in the 1940-1960s)However, any modern study in the last 25 years, which has looked at the long-term effect of synthetic/isolated vitamins has found harmful effects from supplementation For example, alpha-tocopherol is linked to increased risk of stroke, prostate cancer, and shortened life-expectancy.There is no such thing as acetate vitamins on the consumer market that are being extracted from natural sources. If you see an acetate vitamin on a Supplement Facts panel it is synthetic.I didn’t say that the acetate comes from a natural source. I said a compound having ate in its name doesn’t mean it’s synthetic.Eric, do you have an alternative you’d recommend?Saissann, I would say the best 100% plant-based multivitamins on the market right now are Whole Food Multivitamin by Garden of Life myKind Organics and Multivitamin & Mineral by Whole Earth & Sea. My formulation Palm Fruit by Botanical Craft is a plant-based tocotrienol and carotenoid supplement that augments these multivitamins with nutrients that practically all Americans are deficient in.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Show studies which support that because what I know your statment is false(and Im toxicologist). Vitamins even synthetic are designed to be ingested after meal with substance that increase absorption. ” but far from harmful (they don’t do more harm than good)” the dose make poison and all act in the same way. Again provide toxicological reports to your claims.What is your point? “5-Methyltetrahydrofolate” your points are false. Folic acid reduced and methylated to become the metabolically active form found in blood and utilized by tissues, i.e. 5-methyltetrahydrofolateGood article, i completly agree that nutritious food is much better for you and any tablets. Thanks for sharing!Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Synthetic Vitamin A (as beta -carotene) was banned from prenatal supplements because it was found to cause many birth defects. In adults it causes hair loss, cirrhosis of the liver, water retention, skin diseases and many others. Yet it was not banned. Vitamin C ( as asorbic acid) depletes the real vitamin C in your body. Asorbic acid is only one of many components of the real Vitamin C which comes from vine ripened products and is easily destroyed by heat. The list goes on…. The Author just touched the surface of the problem without giving all the horrid details. Good article. The book “The Calcium Lies” is primarily about how taking calcium doesn’t help strengthen bones. It also goes into the details of each vitamin, why it is needed and how synthetics can harm you.Any proof?  Standard Process still grows their own vegetables, etc to make their products also on the same location which they call “the farm”.Yes. You can see the inclusion of “ascorbic acid” and “vitamin A palmitate” which can be naturally derived but are practically always synthetic if listed as single ingredients without reference to their botanical origin.Thanks for responding.  It’s amazing this thread is still alive. I went and checked Standard Process’ “General Health” as an example.  It appears they mix synthetic and natural together quite a bit in that product.  Since, I just attended one of their seminars yesterday and they always make such a big deal of how natural their products are vs synthetic, I am going to contact them.Do you have any opinions regarding Integrative Therapeutics and Biodesign?  I have obtained good results with their products.  Have used them for years.  Almost no results with Standard Process but it appears they have quite a following.It seems that both those brands have some products with synthetic ingredients which may be appropriate in rare cases. I generally stay away from synthetics (e.g., single isolated minerals, aminos, vitamins, etc). Broad spectrum supplementation is my preferred method. (e.g., trace minerals, proteins, plant-based phytonutrient extracts, etc)Would you mind mentioning the natural supplements that you prefer?  It appears there are studies showing the adverse effects from synthetic vitamins.  Of course, studies can be manipulated to show whatever.  Thanks, again.Top brands for multivitamins are the MyKind Organics by Garden of Life and the multivitamins by Whole Earth & Sea. Naturally I also recommend my own formulation Palm Fruit by Botanical Craft.I am amazed that this Great Multivitamin being recommended here has cyanide bonded B-12 in it. And the methyl bonded is useless in a multivitamin.Needs to be sub-lingual to be absorbed. It has both forms. I don’t do cyanide. So much for this Great Multivitamin.I will keep searching.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()You should not treat high cholesterol, high cholesterol is a warning sign of an underlying problem. Cholesterol is your friend, a lifesaving one, if it’s high, you would probably be dead, but since you’re not, the high cholesterol is what keeps you alive. It’s an emergency band aid the body provides, trying to remove it invites death that much sooner. Think of high cholesterol as seeing smoke in a house. then you start to find a way to get rid of the smoke, or hide it… Normally logic would dictate.. hey, the house is on fire, let’s find the fire instead and put it out. Usually changing the diet to more alkaline will fix everything.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()I’m searching for the chart but cannot find it anywhere csn you provide a link pleasePingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()More alkaline, huh? Interesting.
Take care.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()I understand that synthetic vitamins are made in a lab. That is sort of the definition of synthetic. But there is nothing inherently wrong if the chemical they produce is identical to the chemical that our body needs.However, if someone is producing a chemical that is different in function and form than Vitamin C, and then calls it Vitamin C, they should be prosecuted for false advertising.I’m a little more confident that these manufactured vitamins function similar to natural vitamins, or else the labs making the vitamins are absolutely terrible at their jobs.Is there any proof that the vitamins in these pills are different in form and function than a vitamin extract from a fruit?^^ Three problems with this reasoning. Firstly, there are often isomeric differences between naturally and synthetically produced chemicals even though they posses the same molecular formula. Secondly, most vitamins are groups of compounds, and not single chemicals. For example, vitamin C is any substance that exhibit biological activity of ascobic acid, which can encompass many sugar acids (e.g., theronate). And these lesser known forms of vitamin C may posses other unique biological properties yet to be identified. Another example, “vitamin E” is a group of vitamers, including tocotrienols and tocopherols. Synthetic vitamin E is always going to be a form of isolated alpha-tocopherol, while plant based vitamin E is almost always going to have a mixture of tocopherols and tocotrienols. Thirdly, there are “companion nutrients” outside of these vitamers that you will only find from plant based sources. So its the lack of balance and diversity in synthetic preparations that creates health problems.My biggest objection to this is that there are studies for each individual supplement which show the benefits of that supplement. They do not test companion nutrients, but test synthetic supplements. Nearly every vitamin has such studies attributed to it.Yet somehow when you combine these supplements into a multivitamin or talk about supplements in general rather than about individual supplements, they are bad for you.For instance, could you possibly say that Vitamin C supplements are not good for you when there are many studies that say otherwise?The overall outcome from human research on vitamin C (ascorbic acid) has been inconclusive at best, and harmful at worst. Similarly, the compilation of research on vitamin E (alpha-tocopherol) shows generally harmful effects, while plant-based vitamin E (tocopherols, tocotrienols) shows more beneficial effects. Keep in mind, the DRI, RDI, and RDA are all recommendations/references for intakes of vitamins from food (i.e., plant based), not from supplements.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Indeed there is a huge difference between synthetic FOLIC ACID and Natural FOLATE and how it’s used in our bodies. This is especially important for those of us who have mutations to our MTHFR gene and require natural B12 and Folate supplementation. For us to use a synthetic, spells disaster and for those who don’t suffer this mutation, it’s still a good idea to go with a natural vitamin supplement. It only makes sense to use something that is normally found FOOD!Again, we are talking about synthetic vs natural occurring. One is positive and the other negative on the biological organism. In most cheap vitamin supplements, magnesium stearate is used and It is a synthetic and is far removed from what occurs naturally in food.Most of Standard Process supplements have animal glands in them so they’re not suitable for vegans and vegetarians. Their products also contain calcium stearate and other additives.Synthetics vitamins are made from toxic chemicals like formaldehyde and coal tar. The minerals in multivitamins are usually synthetic, inorganic minerals which have poor bioavailability and absorption and therefore become free radicals in the body causing oxidation. You want organic plant based minerals found in nature.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()“Natural” vitamin E is a mix of Tocopherols and Tocotrienols. Anything that says it’s vitamin E and only has one vitamin ingredient is missing stuff.  These are the 8 types:  d-Alpha-Tocopherol
  d-Beta Tocopherol
  d-Gamma Tocopherol
  d-delta tocopherol  d-Alpha Tocotrienol
  d-Beta Tocotrienol
  d-Gamma Tocotrienol
  d-delta tocotrienolYou can take d-Alpha-Tocopherol as a “Natural” vitamin but you will decrease the concentration of d-Gamma Tocopherol making you more susceptible to cancer and atherosclerosis.  Get a mix of all 8 isomers.There are at least 14 known vitamers naturally occurring in the vitamin E family now. The newest editions being alpha-tocomonoenol, plastochromanol-8, a-dehydrotocopherols, desmethyltocotrienol, y-tocopherol-9, and tocodienols.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()If you want truely a great Multivitamin with no synthetics, try Mother Earth Labs, PH Balancer. It’s so much cheaper in price than Intra Max.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()What US agency is not deceitful?it’s really scary how uneducated writers can influence a lot of people with total lack of knowledge. Do your home work first. There is also quite a big group of people believing that earth is flat.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()That is absolute nonsense. Synthetic vitamins have been proven to be directly responsible for hypervitaminosis in children (especially synthetic vitamin A), not to mention the fact that some synthetic vitamins are shown to inhibit the uptake of their natural counterpart (ironically resulting in a vitamin deficiency).The only way to remain nourished with micronutrients is to eat a balanced diet which contains enough natural nutrition and to COMPLETELY AVOID synthetic vitamins, whether in tablet format or in “fortified” (read “deliberately toxified”) foods.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()What about vitamin b3? Do you recommend it to someone who has come off of pharmaceutical drugs for blood thinningPingback: ()Intra Max contains synthetic vitamins and is advertising on this site.???????where did you see that? intramax is plant and organic sourced.These are or are partially synthetic according to some research.
PABA, B3, biotin, B5, vit. D, B12, choline,  B2, …..maybe more?Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Synthetic vitamins are not what the body needs to heal and grow efficiently. Natural 100% plant based with organic mineral vitamins are the only and best vitamins one can take. I take Whole Earth & Sea NON GMO Pure food vitamins made from plants and organic mineral sources. This way I know my body is processing natural foods and not some off-set lab rat pills that do nothing but cause havoc with my normal body functions. Normal processing starts with normal plant based foods and not with a spray on tan based chemical in which has nothing to do with nutrition and everything to do with profit. Plus eating almonds and pecans and walnuts during the week along with eating healthy meals is a big plus. Take one week and stop eating white bread and rice. No soda or sugary drinks and candy and chips. No late night eating and lay off the smoking and alcohol just for one week and watch your piss turn brown from detoxing your system. That’s what happened too me when I stopped all the western diet and for the first time in years, i was able to sleep all the way through the night, after just one week of detox of the western diet. Been cigarette free for 1-1/2 years now and feeling better than ever. Knock on wood!Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Any suggestion for 100% whole food bases multivitamin brand name ?Any suggestion for 100% whole food bases multivitamin brand name ??