The garbage passed off as food today and the high rates of digestive disorders plaguing the nation make it clear that the importance of the digestive process is not understood. Digestion is a process that can affect our daily quality of life, playing a direct role in our .  In essence, digestion is where our health begins, and recent research has blatantly illustrated this fact. Let’s look at how the digestive system performs its function and discuss the key facts you need to know when seeking to protect your digestive health. The digestive process involves three basic steps: the cephalic phase, the gastric phase, and the intestinal phase. Here are some of the main focus points associated with each phase:While digestion requires the three phases listed above, it also requires four essential components–stomach acid, enzymes, .Digestive enzymes break molecules into smaller parts so they can be absorbed by the body. These enzymes are categorized as:Those that are deficient in these enzymes, or those that suffer from an impairment in enzyme function, may benefit from enzyme supplementation. These bacterial colonies, Lactobacillus and Bifidobacteria being the most common, play an essential role in digestion.  aid in the synthesis of vitamin K, B12, and biotin (B1), contribute to the digestion of foods, denature proteins, and kill off hostile microbes. Some studies even suggest that probiotics may aid in balancing mood.    This effect is observed in relation to serotonin, a neurotransmitter found mainly in the gastrointestinal system.These “bionics” are essentially the food for probiotic colonies.  Generally speaking, prebiotics are pectins or fibers and aid in the nourishment and flourishing of probiotic bacteria. Some probiotic supplements come with prebiotics, an addition believed to increase the effectiveness of the probiotic bacteria. Are there certain foods you find you can’t digest? Which ones are they? Leave us a comment below to let us know! 
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.The Human Body really is an amazing systemPingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()