Though its name might be a bit misleading, organic hemp milk is a perfectly legal, not to mention healthy, alternative for vegetarians or non-vegetarians. Produced from the , this milk has only begun to be sold in the United States within the past few years.One concern that people have about organic hemp milk is that it might contain some of the chemical THC (tetrahydrocannabinol), which is found in marijuana. Rest assured that this ingredient is not present or associated with hemp milk.Another concern is that the hemp seeds must be imported since it’s currently not legal to grow the hemp plant in the US. Some hemp milk producers have to rely on obtaining hemp seeds from farmers in Canada or Europe, where the growth of  or milk is perfectly legal.Organic hemp milk is also a great alternative to toxic  and those who cannot consume dairy because of dietary issues.One 8-Ounce glass contains the following healthy nutrients:Combine the water and the Shelled Hemp Seeds in a blender. Use more water to achieve a consistency similar to dairy skim milk and less water to produce a heavier cream consistency – more like standard whole milk.Turn blender on high for 2-3 minutes, or until you reach your desired consistency.After blending you can sweeten the milk by adding: Organic Agave Nectar, , or Organic Vanilla. Blend again to mix sweetener. You can drink it thick or strain it through cheese cloth to remove the large seed particles. The seed pulp can then be used as an excellent body scrub, facial mask or .  Recipe Makes: 6-7 cups and will stay fresh for 3 days in the refrigerator in a sealed glass container (use a mason jar). Shake well before each use.  Parents: This is a very easy way to supplement a good source of organic protein, Omega-6 &  in your child’s diet.Organic shelled hemp seeds can be purchased online.It can be purchased in plain, vanilla, or chocolate flavors, and the boxes they are packaged in do not have to be refrigerated until after you open them. There are now multiple stores selling multiple brands, so if you are a consumer who prefers to stick to organic products, you should not have too much difficulty finding them.Plain organic hemp milk contains no sugar, no cholesterol, and is free of soy and gluten. For many people, these factors make it an obvious choice for an abundant source of vital nutrients. The essential fatty acids, vitamins & nutrients that are contained in organic hemp milk provide a wide variety of health benefits.
	 As with anything, you should always conduct a sufficient amount of research on any products that you are considering trying. There are actually quite a few different brands available on the market, and not all of them are made with organic ingredients.Try to get in the habit of reading product labels on everything, not just food and beverage items. Even everyday items like skin care products can contain . When you regularly read ingredients of the things you and your family are using or consuming, you will develop a greater understanding of labeling practices and what to look for to be safe.Organic hemp milk may very well be the best alternative for those of you who either do not like cow’s milk, suffer from lactose intolerance, or are vegans. While the taste of it may be something that you have to adjust to, you might just find that you actually prefer it to any of the other milk products you have tried.
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.I LOVE Hemp Milk! If I make milkshakes for my two sons, I always put in Hemp milk because it has so many health benefits. Thank you for posting this information!This is great information, and thank you so much for giving a viable recipe!Ahhhhh, Dr. G, you’re the man…. thanks to you i’ve been drinking the living harvest chocolate hemp milk.  Drinking some right now 🙂  I’m a poker player and I feel the “brain power” that hemp milk gives me mentally while i’m playing.  Try it out guys it’s really good 🙂Some of my friends think I’m weird because I like to drink hemp milk. They always joke that it’s gonna “get me high” and stuff like that… Ironically, I drink it because it tastes good. Thanks for the article… I’m going to email it to all of them now.What are the possible side effects?I personally prefer the taste of organic milk, just the regular dairy found at the stores. But whenever I’m making a smoothie or milkshake, I like to add hemp milk. I also like to add flaxseed oil to the shakes as well.I would recommend everybody try a sip of hemp milk at least once. It really does have many benefits.We keep a carton of hemp milk in the fridge at my office. My coworkers and I use it as creamer for our coffee. It tastes alot like ‘Hazelnut’ flavor, but is much healthier for us.nice post. I’m emailing it to my coworkers now.. thanksthat’s weird… I also like to use hemp milk as a creamer for my coffee. I’ve never heard of anybody else doing that. The only thing about hemp milk that I don’t like, is that fact that it settles quite a bit. So, remember to shake it up really well before using it.There are no side effects unless you have an allergy to hemp which is extremely rare and I have never heard of anyone with this allergy. Hemp oil is actually the closest oil in the world to the sebum (oil) secreted by the human body.— Dr. GThanks for clearing my doubt Dr. G.i went from soy,rice, and almond milk i couldnt find anything that i really liked ..Just started drinking hemp milk and i love it!!You sir, just convinced me to give hemp milk a try….. thank you for your informative post!Does hemp milk have any naturally occurring estrogens or other hormones in it?I have not seen any chemical analysis that shows any harmful estrogens or hormones contained in Organic Hemp Milk. If it is genetically modified however it may contain harmful hormones. Be sure to buy organic.– Dr. GHi.  My baby is 15 months old and is allergic to milk and eggs.  She has been on Similac Alimentum and lately she’s been refusing it so I’m looking for another alternative.  I asked her ped about hemp milk and she said no.  I also asked her allergist about it and also he said not sure.  But I would like to try it on my daughter because I’m kind of desperate now.  Is this safe for a 15 month old to drink?  Thanks so much.   My husband and I have tried it and we like it.Hi Precious,I personally used organic raw goats milk to supplement my child’s diet and found it at a local farmers market. This would be my first choice. If I could not find Goats milk I would make my own Hemp milk and give it to my child but there is not enough research to confirm a Hemp milk only replacement for children, it is not as high in protein as regular milk. Hope this helps,  Dr. GHello Dr. Group I was wondering how long have you consumed hemp seeds?Also, what are your thoughts on getting a food allergy test?The reason I ask is because I started consuming seasme seeds because I heard they are really good for skin and nails but I started getting flares up ( acne), I am not sure if it is due to the sesame seeds or maybe something else. I was wondering if these tests are a sham or they are the real thing?Last question is what do you think of hemp seed protein?i’ve never had hemp milk, and i’ve only had almond milk once with an old roomate of mine in college. She was crazy! I’m surprised she didn’t drink hemp milk!I am getting desperate.  My 2 year old is allergic to dairy and soy.  She’s lost a lot of weight over the past month since we had to change her milk diet.  I haven’t found another dairy free product that she will drink.   Is hemp milk safe for a 2 year old?  Any behavioral side effects?Hello Holly,My son had homemade hemp milk since he was 1 as well as Organic whole grain brown rice milk and almond milk. However I still supplemented his diet with organic raw goats milk. I found a source at a local farmers market. Hope this helps. – Dr. GHi Cedric,I have consumed and made my own hemp milk for about three years and use the oil on salads etc..I think Hemp seed protein is one of the best sources of non meat and dairy protein. As far as allergy testing goes, I am not confident in the accuracy or could I recommend a test I feel comfortable with. Try replacing the sesame seeds with white chia seeds. If you have allergies, your system is overloaded with toxins so I would recommend . Thanks, Dr. GHello Dr. G,my son is severely allergic to the protein in the milk, he can not have any kind of milk whatsoever! He was drinking Silk Soy for couple of years, but his allergist told us not to give it to him anymore because it is affecting his asthma. He had asthma attack frequently, so he is drinking rice milk now, that doesn’t taste the same and very lite.
Do you think it would be safe to try.
He is anaphylactic (only to the milk) and also has other food allergies just not that severe, and a lot of different kind of environmental allergies.Thanks
ValcsiOops!!! Sorry….
I wanted to say….”Save to try the Hemp Milk?”ValcsiMy 1 yr old granddaughter was taken off of formula and put on soy, but has had a lot of problems with bronchitis lately. Could she be allergic to soy as well? I thought that it was the lactose that created the allergic reaction? Would hemp milk cause her to produce excessive phlem? If not, then I’d like to get some….so where would I find it? My 30 year old daughter, who is the mother of my granddaughter, is an asthmatic, somewhat severe, to say the least.  Would she benefit from this hemp milk as well?  Could my granddaughter be misdiagnosed as having asthma???  Please advise ASAP!  Sincerely, V. (desperate grandma)Hi V,It is very possible that she is allergic to soy. Most people are. I highly advise against the consumption of all non-fermented soy products. They are extremely toxic to the body and contain phyto-estrogens which can alter a baby’s natural hormone regularity. For infants I recommend Organic raw goat milk if the mother cannot breastfeed. Hemp is about the next best thing but I would call Bob Labine first and he can test your grandson over the phone for allergies and what milk would be the best for him. Not sure what his rates are though. His number is 480-948-6756Dr. GHi Dr. G…my little angel is 11 months old and has been allergic to breastmilk, cows milk and soy milk (she cannot take soy as she has hypothyroidism) so we just removed her off soy formula (prosobee). I was told by her ped to give her goat milk and rice milk (alternating them) along with her solids. My baby also has sever cerebral palsy which makes everything worse. I have been reading a lot on hempmilk and are tying other ways to promote brain activity for her and I find that hempmilk aids in this as well as all the nutrients found in it. I supplement her diet already with Reliv (nutritional supplement), olive oil, coconut oil, fish oil, etc to get her the extra fats & nutrients she doesn’t get from the rice & goat milk. My question (finally  🙂  ) is, is hempmilk ok to give her since I already supplement her diet with other things? Is there any ways it could hurt her? I bought the living harvest brand in vanilla just in case. Please respond asap…thanks!!!Hemp seeds are an excellent solution for vegetarians.
Our diets today are often without the correct balance of nutrients, for example, if you take a calcium supplement, you may not be absorbing it into the body because calcium needs magnesium and something acidic with it like a bit of vinegar or lemon juice in water to be absorbed into the body. So it is with omega 3 and omega 6. You need both to provide the cells in the body what it needs otherwise imbalances occur.thx, dnlhartmanI’m severely allergic to hemp and I know several other people who are as well, so it can’t be all THAT rare. I learned I was allergic when I was about 12. I had gotten a hemp necklace as a gift and I broke out into a red rash around my neck and hives within about 10 minutes of putting it on. The rash lasted for nearly a week.My daughter had such an intolerance to any type of whey or soy protein that she would poo blood any time I would consume anything that contained it.  I was breastfeeding and had to eliminate all of that from my diet.  I refused to give her the alternative formulas because the first ingredient is corn maltodextrin.  I found hemp milk and began drinking it myself.  I ended up taking her to a homeopathic Dr. and he suggested that if I needed to supplement her for any reason that I do it with the hemp milk.  When she was 2 months old, we gave her about 2 ounces and she tolerated it great!  She is almost 6 months old now and if she ever needs a bottle for any reason, that’s what she has.  Sometimes my husband will take her for the day and he always takes pumped milk and a back-up bottle of hemp milk for her.
My 23 month old loves the chocolate flavor also.  She does not have the same intolerance but she loves the hemp milk.
To all of you parents out there that are having similar problems, I’m not a Dr. but I can tell you that as a supplement to breast milk, it has given me a night or two of sleep by allowing my husband to give our baby a bottle.  I feel for anyone going through similar problems, especially if they cannot breastfeed.  It took a while to pinpoint the problem for us, but altering my diet was the best solution.  Good luck to all you parents and grandparents out there that are trying to find solutions that are best for the little ones in your lives!Thanks for all of your input, I know many mothers will appreciate it. My sons also love hemp milk and we make it fresh at the house.Dr. GI also use hemp milk for coffee.  I use it for lattes and it adds a delicious nutty flavor.  I used to add a sweetener before I discovered hemp millk, but now I don’t need it and my lattes taste much better!  Yum.hello !
I have been using hemp milk in the mornings for a while, it’s great ! I feel ike it nourishes the body as a complete, whole food. I never feel hungry after drinking hemp milk. I soak some figs or dates overnight and add them to the soaked hemp seeds ad whizz together, then strain through a muslin.
However, my question has been triggered byt he comments on Soy … that tyou say most people are allergic to soy, and we shouldn’t use NON-FERMENTED versions of soya…
I am entering the menopause and most sites recommend high doses of phytooestrogens that you get in soya products, so I have been using some tofu etc. I was actually considering getting some dried soya beans to soak and sprout or cook, as I thought that might be a more pure way to use it. But from what you are saying it is only good to use the fermented versions …. Is TOfu fermented ? or do you mean things like tempeh, miso etc ???
Any advice gratefully received !
C. PRobyn (UK)
will you e-mail me the reply or do I have to check the website again ?!hello again !
would you recommend the full body cleansing pack for older people ? well I am 46, and I worry sometimes that the cleansing rituals may be too harsh on our sytems so I have not yet used one, rather out of fear !!!! Can you advise ?
CarolineWomen in my opinion should not consume or take in excess estrogens. They should use progesterone instead. You can find fermented tofu in some places and yes I am talking about miso and tempeh. Your hemp milk recipe is great.. Thanks for sharing.–Dr. GCaroline, You should not have a problem with the sequence below. The only change I would make is to wait 10 days instead of 5 for the consecutive liver and gallbladder cleanses.Dr. Groups Whole Body and “Green Living” Cleanse Steps:Step 1: Fill out a Health Questionnaire to evaluate your current health status Step 2: Perform the 7-Day Oxygen Colon Cleanse or the 6-Day Advanced Oxygen Colon Cleanse (recommended for best results) Step 3: Perform your first Liver & Gallbladder Cleanse Step 4: Rest for 5-10 days Step 5: Perform your second Liver & Gallbladder Cleanse. During this time start on your Harmful Organism Cleanse. Step 6: Fill out the Health Questionnaire again to evaluate your progress. Step 7: Rest for 5-10 daysStep 8: During this rest period, test yourself for heavy metal toxicity using the Mineral Check Test Kit Step 9: Perform your third Liver and Gallbladder Cleanse Step 10: Rest for 5-10 days and fill out the Health Questionnaire again Step 11: Perform the Chemical & Heavy Metal Cleanse Step 12: Continue on a maintenance dose of Oxy-Powder® 2-3x weekly to keep your intestines clean and prevent toxins from entering your body. Step 13: Perform the “Green Living” Cleanse. NOTE: Detoxifying the body is a big step in the right direction, but it must be coupled with an active effort to start avoiding or eliminating your exposure to heavy metals and toxic chemicals on a daily basis. My new book Health Begins in the Colon describes these toxins in detail and gives you easy methods for identifying and eliminating them from your diet, home and work environment so you can live a healthy, clean, and green life!–Dr. GHello again Dr G !
just to sya i am very grateful for your site, which is new to me…really really helfpul. thanks for being there !
secondly – yes i do not really understnad the estrogen /preogest thing … they say that japanese women eat more soy products and that’s why they don’t have menopausal symptoms like we do in the west … ahve you heard this too ?
but then others i have heard are also saying about the progesterone intake. I am unsure about using these things because I have a deep trust in the body’s own wisdom and am always looking for things that don’t make too many artificial changes, epsecially in the hormone department !!! I partly think that some menopausal symptoms are necessary, eg: the sweating may be necessary to cleanse the system when a woman is no longer menstruating ?
Are there progesterone products you would recommend in particular ?
Many thanks again
Caroline (UK)thankyou
ps! I also sometimes whizz up (with the hemp milk) an avocado and half a mango (or/and a banana) and a spoonful of ground flax seeds and make a smoothie, does for two people ….  wonderful.
I think hemp milk is mother’s milk for adults !!!! :o)I adore hemp milk. I remember when Whole Foods didn’t carry it and now they have many varieties. It’s nutritious and delicious, what more can you ask for?I would actually agree with you that cleansing is the first step and after that the body should come back to its natural order..I just started Goat’s Milk for my kids and then read this site about Hemp Milk.  Anyone here have experience with trying Hemp milk with their children who have autism like my son.  John is mild PDD-NOS with Sensory Integration.  What did you notice if anything? Thanks EileenEileen, There is a protocol for autism that includes hemp milk and supplements taken daily along with therapeutic-grade essential oils. It takes into consideration calming, digestion and detoxing, alertness, balance, building immunity and cognitive performance. THe protocol was developed by a mom for her autistic son and is available for free. Blessings, BrendaWhat packaged Brand of hemp milk do you recommend ?and if decided to buy hemp seeds what brand do you recommend ? I like this info for my clientsThank you,
jeanetteI hope this isn’t too far off topic, but I have a cat with a very sensitive stomach.  She likes goat milk.  Is hemp milk ok for cats?  She is very thin, and even with food for sensitive stomach, she may vomit 1-2 x per week. (this has been going on since birth)  Thanks!I’m no expert on cats, but since hemp seems to be mankind’s holy plant–it’s coevolved perfectly to meet our biological nutrition profile needs (i.e. essential fatty acids in the PERFECT ratios)–and the hempseed oil applied to the face with a cuetip cures all skin ailments and acne (I’m completely serious, I’ve suffered acne my whole life and this is the only thing you want to use besides a singular cleanser)–it might not be such a jump to think that the hemp plant might also, even slightly, meet the nutritional needs of other members of the mammalian order.  I have a strong affinity for kitties, and keep feedin’ kitty goat milk and being sensitive to her needs, but definitely try out some hemp milk, a pure unsweetened version is best.  If kitty is thin, she’s going to get real fat real soon, on only the best fats!  Please believe it, for hemp milk is pretty fat, usually a third of the calories from fat or higher (although you could say the same thing about the regular version of Silk’s soy milk).  Chances are, if kitty is going to hold any foodstuff down, it’s going to be this most essential and evolutionarily embedded foodstuff.Well, I was checking out Whole Foods’ selection of hemp milk.  The two best brands, it seems, nutritionally (that is, the least amount of fat, the most reasonable ratio, a third from fat), are Pacific Foods, and then some other brand, I can’t remember, maybe it’s some rainbow something or something.  The other brands are sometimes half from fat or more.  I know hempseed is obviously all fat, but, we’re not trying to drink hemp ice cream here.  Both of these brands are sweetened.  As for hempseeds, and other hemp products, there seems to be only one industry leader at this time (hopefully a world revolution will take place one day where hemp products become as commonly available as water and gasoline)–and that is Nutiva.  Their hempseed oil is wonderful.  Buy it and save it–it’s going to save your life when the plague sweeps the earth, quote me on this.  It’s going to cure your skin ailments, applied patiently with a cuetip.  But also, they carry various other hemp products–visit their website.  I’m not advertising for them, I’m telling you the plain consumer facts.  Hemp products are hard to come by in this cursed day and age.  They carry hemp protein powder, too.  The thing about that is, most people concentrate on the hempseed, but obviously, the entire plant is nutritious–by overlooking the rest of the plant, you’re just getting fat and not looking into the phytogenic, fibrous, protenous, properties of the rest of the plant… apparently, Nutiva’s protein powder reflects some of these other properties.  I don’t have enough money to have ever bought it or tried it.  I’ve just tried crappy other brands, lol.  Good luckI’m no doctor, but I say of all the things in the plant kingdom, at least give it a try.  Science and the government has lied to us our entire lives.  The probable truth is that hemp is God’s plant.  You know the garden of eden?  And the forbidden fruit?  Well, I think the garden of eden was constituted solely by the hemp plant, it was probably the first plant we ever carried around, before and at the time of the neolithic revolution.  And the forbidden fruit refers to all other bullshit plants out there that come up short on our nutritional needs (although, there are so many nutritious plants, many of which we don’t even bother eating or growing, that could feed us free and cure famine all around the world… it’s a conspiracy, I know).  Hemp likely has been coevolving with us for hundreds of thousands of years, which suggests in terms of primality and allergen potential, hemp should, in theory, pose the lowest danger.  I don’t think you could say we’ve been coevolving with wheat or soy for hundreds of thousands of years.  It’s a shame more research isn’t conducted into this.  But, heavens to murgatroid, give it a chance.plus, it fat supplementation is what you’re concerned about, put down all that other bullshit.  The fat from hempseeds (hemp milk) is ALL you need–I’m betting my life on it.  That I am sure of.  But, of course, I have other issues–I’m trying to LOSE fat, because I need to get really skinny for the XC season, and I have this annoying store of fat from eating processed bullshit and being lied to by friends, family and society, my entire life–so I can’t enjoy the perfect fattening pleasure of hemp milk as much as I’d like.  But yes, hempseed has the essential fats in PERFECT ratios, apparently.  Find out for yourself if you don’t believe me.  Someone out there knows the truth, and many others out there are incredibly ignorant and full of shit–including most nutritionists and doctors, dumbass robots that have gone through our flawed institutions.  They know everything about anatomy and so many goddamn things, yet nobody can spread the word about exercise and kinesiological balance, and nutritional balance with superfood plants and hemp.  Something’s gotta change in this world, for christ sake…Try calling Nutiva’s customer service – they’re very good about sending samples out to consumers who want to try their products.My one year old is most likely mildly autistic, of course we can’t fully diagnose.  I have had him on the homemade hemp milk for a little over a week and his digestion has completely improved, he is calmer, and seems to be connecting more.  He also has had cradle cap his whole life and I swear all of a sudden, after starting the hemp milk, it is falling off and clearing up! I am giving it a month to really see what happens but so far so good.I wonder if anyone knows where I can buy hemp milk in the Netherlands.  I know it sounds weird [insert pot smoking Amsterdam joke here], but I can’t seem to find it – although I found it, in of all places, Nashville, TN!!Any ideas …not adverse to making it myself, but I will need to have access to the non THC seeds.I’d like to try Hemp milk, I usually drink soy but this seems like an even healthier alternative. I live in nashville,  would you mind telling me which store you saw it in… I’d greatly appreciate it. about your ? go to cannabisculture.com its a magazine company from canada, I’ve heard that you can buy bags of seeds from them, you could probably get non-thc seeds from them too, i heard about it on one of those late nite nat-geo shows, lol. hope it helpsCats, however, should not be fed high omega-6 oils as corn, soy, canola, hempseed, or flaxseed. Since their history is carnivorous, they lack the enzyme necessary for metabolizing plant-based omega-6 and may develop a toxicity from it.*ALL* cow’s milk (regular and ‘organic’) has 59 active hormones, scores of allergens, fat and cholesterol.Phil, if you havent found out Whole Foods and Yes Organic stores carry Hemp milk. I drink the organic varietyman, you are loony tunes.  not every act of deception or falsity related to government, science, or other institutions has to invoke a conspiracy theory.  your speculative rambling about scientific concepts such as evolution don’t really  help you make your points since you don’t seem too familiar or interested in scientific concepts.  maybe you should spend less time on the internet obsessing over hemp milk and more time talking to real people who might be able to refine your theories so you don’t develop a tunnel-vision view of the world.so dumb question maybe does hemp milk contain nuts i have a son who is allergic to soy and doesn’t eat solids and has an allergy to nuts. need to find a formula or milk he can drink.Hi, it is not advisable to give a baby under 6 months anything other than formula or breastmilk. There areanti-allergen formulas, but obviously breast milk is the best thing. If you have stopped breastfeeding, then you can bring our milk supply back (the women’s body is pretty amazing when you think about it, in tribes where a baby’s mother has died, grandmother’s have been known to bring milk supply back, and feed the baby).
You can buy supplementation bags, which attach to the breast, the baby feeds from the tube, at the same time as suckling the nipple, this then tells the breast to boost milk production, and soon enough, there will be enough milk for the baby.
Breastmilk, really is the best main source of nutrition for any child under 1, and should be given for at least 2 years. It is a super food, so perfect for those with allergies. Recent research shows that it also contains stem cells, so double super.Are you sure she’s allergic to your breast milk? This is a near impossibility, unless she has true Lactose intolerence, in which case she would be allergic to Goats milk too.
It seems alot of American doctors are very quick to say babies are allergic to breastmilk. It may be that you are consuming something which is coming through your breastmilk.
Breastmilk is made exactly for your baby, and the incedence of true breastmilk allergy is 0.001%. This is only when they have a TRUE lactose allergy (not what we know as lactose intolerence, which  noramlly happens in older years)whoa, did you say you use hemp seed oil on your face for acne?! I have cold pressed organic hemp seed oil that i use to make salad dressing. i can use that on my face? do you dab it on, or use it all over your face? rinse it off? i need an acne solution, and haven’t gone to the dermatologist because i don’t trust the stuff they prescribe.I have also gotten rashes from hemp bracelets, but consume hemp milk and hemp oil just fine.Can someone please tell me why hemp milk doesn’t stay good very long, once it’s opened, even though it’s refrigerated. What could happen if i drink hemp milk i’ve had opened for a month? I also have hemp oil in my refrigerator, and I’m not sure how long that’s suppose to stay good for, but i’ve had it several months.are you sure it was the hemp?
not being snooty or anything, just wanting to be sure… maybe the hemp was treated with a preservative or some other chemical that was a problem.  I know sugar beets are usually treated with chlorine as part of the sugar-extraction process; maybe the hemp was treated with something similarly? Anybody know ?I am a grandmother and I have a 10 week prem grandson whose mother does not produce enough breast milk for him.  So when we brought him home we were giving him formula which constipated him so badly that I sought to find an healthy alternative for him.  So we have been topping up his breast feeds with home made hemp mild made from organic shelled hemp seeds, blended with water and sweetened with organic date water (obtained after soaking dates in water).  It has been three weeks now and baby is doing well.  He is sleeps well and poohs like a troop now.I just made my own hemp milk from hemp seeds and water. 3.5 cups of water, 1 cup of hemp seed. 2tbls of aguve nector. blened in a blender. making your own is the way to go. tastes so fresh and good. will never buy it pre-made..,
Yes, my 6 yr old has autism (ppd-nos) and adhd, and we found great results taking him off of dairy altogether.. it slowed down some of the hyperactivity, he started interacting more with the world and people around him, and was not so moody.  Seemed to also reduce much of his sensory issues as well. I mix almond milk and hemp milk together for him instead of milk, and it works just fine.  He is still thin but not quite as emaciated looking as before, and because he is not filling up on commercial milk, is eating lots more healthy foods now. I think before, his system was not digesting and absorbing the food properly, due to the dairy allergies. He is no longer constipated all the time either.
Try getting a flavored one first, or mixing it with almond milk.
Good luck to you..First thing I would do is stop yearly vaccines if she is getting them.  They can be very toxic especially to a sensitive cat.
Go to Dr Ronald Schultz DVM  (website)and he explains the problems  with over-vaccinating. Try to feed organic foods. Cat could be allergic to some of the stuff fed chickens/cows & antibiotics given to commercially raised animals. Good luck!I would presume that it does not stay fresh as long is because when making it yourself you are not adding all the chemical preservatives that commercial products typically contain. Which, of course is a bonus, since lots of these preservatives are have been shown to be very unhealthy.I just stumbled across this while searching for food groups that tend to cross react with hemp because my son was just diagnosed with positive skin prick reaction to hemp milk yesterday.  Another site indicated that there were no reported incidents of hemp allergy.  It’s hard to find information on things that don’t exist 🙁Hello…I have a few patients in my practice that are looking for help in supplementing with their breastfeeding. Is Hemp milk along with breastmilk a safe alternative. Formula is not an option. One patient isn’t producing enough for the fast growing baby. I have already consulted about increasing her milk supply. Another patient is also having a hard time with producing enough milk when at the same time the baby has ben given bottles along with the breast and now prefers bottles although the mother is continuing to nurse anyway.Can someone please explain to me how you get B12 from Hemp milk?You can only obtain this vitamin naturally from animal meat, dairy or spiriva?There is surely not anywhere near a sufficient amount of B12 in hemp if any as plants do not have this vitamin.Can this be clarified please.Hi Izzy,Thank you for your comment. B12 in vegan milk products is obtained by fortifying or adding the vitamin to the product. You are correct that there are not many sources of B12 in plant foods. Tempeh, miso, sea vegetables, and a few other plant foods may contain small amounts of vitamin B12. These products, however, are not acceptable sources of the vitamin. Some vegan sources of B12 include Red Star Vegetarian Support Formula or T-6635+ nutritional yeast. I personally use the pure vegan brand of methylcobalamin which is available from ~Dr. GDear Dr.,I entered to your page and read about your hemp milk, but I would like to know if HEMP MILK can be use for autism boys?; because,  I have a boy he is 4 years old with this syndrome.Your reply would be really appreciated, thanks luzmilaThis is a great question!! Please answer this, I’m really curious about this as well. My daughter is 10 mo.  and I would like something to give her for a snack between besides juice and breast milk.. I’m against giving formula unless it is absolutely necessary.. Please answer this question!Hi Izzi,I was actually about to answer your question, but it got so long, that I decided to dedicate a full blog post to answer it.Here it is: I hope it answered your question 🙂Hi–We feed our 15-month son a hemp milk bottle because he is allergic to soy and dairy.  My question is: can we heat it in the microwave or does that kill the living organisms?  He prefers his bottle warmed.
Thanks!
MelanieHi Melanie. Thanks for your question. I would not recommend using the microwave, instead, try soaking it in warm water and make sure the bottle is BPA free. Hope this answers your questions. Thanks! ~Dr. GHI there.. I stumbled across your site while looking at a grain site which listed Hemp milk as an alternative to Soy for non dairy milk.. I’m not a vegan, but I am interested in trying this..
Do you know of any places online that sell the milk to Australia? Or will I have to make my own?Just found it on the shelves of Publix.. in Mufreesboro, TNYes, please answer this.Can anyone tell me if Hemp Milk is helpful with memory. My 91 yr old mother would like to try the milk to see if it would help or she is just too old to remember things. And chalk it up to old age!!!! thank youDr. Oz featured Hemp milk on his show on April 15, 2011.   He claims he drinks it everyday because of the benefits–one of which is memoryI am concerned about the Omega-6 in hemp milk.  Omega-3 is a good thing, but the Omega-6 is not – especially given that there is 3x Omega-6 than Omega-3 in hemp milk.  We get too much Omega-6 from other things like oils, meats, etc. that cause atherosclerosis.  So, while the Omega-3 really helps combat heart disease, the Omega-6 does not.  There is a lot of Omega-6 in hemp milk compared to Omega-3.  The best ratio for long life would be 1:1  Is hemp milk really helping?I tried hemp milk and I like it.I was wondering if it’s okay to use it in cooking another words, is it okay to boil, steam, or cook it?
I made my oatmeal with it and loved it. I want to use it also in making rice, pasta, soufflé…etc.
please help.
thank youWell…given that nobody responded to my question, and that Trader Joe’s stopped stocking hemp milk, I have reverted back to nonfat dairy milk!  There seems to be a current shortage of plain (no sugar) hemp milk and what I can find is twice the price I paid at Trader Joes.  I guess I’ll just eat more walnuts for Omega-3.Yes you can cook with it.  I use it for omlettes instead of dairy milk.  Its also good in batter based foods.  I haven’t used it for Pasta.  It adds a very slight sweet flavour to savoury foods but is strangely nice!  It also smells amazing when its cooking.I located the Hemp milk at my local Fresh n Easy store. Hopefully, you can find one locally.Where can I get more info on this protocol you mention.I was wondering the same thing about the nuts..No answer yet.I do NOT recommend using the microwave on any food or beverage item ever. Please research what it does to your food, beverages, even your water. Then spread the word.Were you able to get a response on where to get this protocol?  Can you share linkI hope you got an answer by now,but i get a lot of my hemp seed from Amason.com.The health food store used to cary it,but i think the cops asked them to tell them who was buying it,so they stopped handeling it.The milk is real easy to make and the seeds are easy to get if you don’t mind waiting a couple days for it.I use gift cards for the puchases.Please make it yourself! It’s so easy and guarenteed to be fresh and raw. I use 1/2 cup hemp hearts per 3 cups filtered water. Sooo much cheaper and better!My husband and I are military:  We would like to try Hemp milk (I understand it’s THC free), but can we be assured to not test positive on a random urinalysis???  I would never want to put our careers at risk or our integrity/character into question all because we wanted to try something healthy!!   I’ve used Hemp-Oil Lotion and it does wonders for the epidermis, so I can only imagine from all it can do for the Interior of our bodies!  🙂Thank you in advance for you timely response.I just made fresh raw hemp milk and when I tried to cook oatmeal with it, it turned into hemp curd. What did I do wrong?Hi Amber, were you able to get an answer to your question?  Could you please let us know? Thanks I want to try it for myself and teen age girl.To answer your question: Yes, you can rest assured knowing that you will never test positive for THC under any tests when consuming hemp milk or hemp-based foods.Here’s why: THC only comes from mature flower buds of female plants. The seeds themselves do not contain any THC. Of course, the seeds grow in the flowers, but again they are completely free of THC and simply washing removes any possible residue from them.So drink away! :-]
It tastes sooo good in unsweetened vanilla.Peter, HIGHLY recommend you stop drinking cow milk immediately!The omega 6 in hemp milk is healthy for you. You need omega 6. That is a silly reason to drink poisonous, toxic cow milk filled with pus, red and white blood cells, antibiotics, pesticides, herbicides, GMO corn residue, and to top it off its pasteurized!Visit  for volumes of info on the dangers of milk.And drink more hemp milk! 🙂Margarita,
Here is the response GHC representatives sent me:“Thanks for your feedback on the GHC blog, and also thanks to you and your family’s service to the country.Unfortunately, the answer to your question is unfortunate.  Drug tests are a flawed process, accepted as gospel, and can have very damaging outcomes.  When Advil can cause a false positive, various hemp products may as well:”Margarita, here is another response I received from a representative:Amber,
Thank you for your email!  The type of hemp used for food production is a different strain of cannabis than the type used for medical or recreational purposes. Hemp milk and other foods contain no THC, the active ingredient in marijuana.  Consumption of hemp foods will never cause a failed drug test.Please let me know if you have any other questions and I will be more than happy to help you.Take care and be well!This response is probably too late for the original posters, but I thought my response might help future readers.  My 3-year old had a dairy allergy, which caused me to investigate alternative “milks”.  I did NOT want to go the soy route, so I researched all the other options and found that hemp milk was the best option for sufficient fat.  My 3-year old has outgrown her milk allergy, and my 1-year old has no dairy allergy, but both girls drink hemp milk.  I feel that the fat makeup is healthier than whole cow’s milk- same fat, but it’s omega-3 and -6, not saturated fats.  It’s a great option for a supplement to breastfeeding.  I knew that I would be weaning both girls shortly after their 1-year birthdays, so I introduced the hemp milk around 10 months, using it to make their oatmeal and then in sippy cups.  Definitely helped prepare them for weaning.  I hope this helps spread the good word about hemp milk for kiddies!hello there my grandson has many allergies which cause severe exzma the highest allergen is nuts he is anaphalactic & has an epi pen which we have to use then he has to go to hospital things he is allergic to many fooods as well are foods containing salycilates which is a natural chemical found in many foods,i was just wondering if there is any salycilates or any nut byproduct in the hemp milk please let me know hey cheers narelleNarelle,
Thank you for your post!  I am sure that this will very depending on the product your reviewing.  I have used Manitoba Harvest products and I took a moment to ask them your question, here is what they say:
Manitoba Harvest does not use or store any products that are known allergens. This includes:
-Sesame seeds or its derivatives
-Eggs or its derivatives
-Seafood (fish, crustaceans and shellfish)
-Milk or its derivatives
-Peanuts or its derivatives
-Tree nuts or its derivatives
-Wheat or its derivatesI have inquired with our Quality Assurance Team and was told that there are trace amounts of Salicylate in Hemp. They did not have specific amounts to provide me with as this is not something that is regularly tested for.I hope that this helps you, however if you have any other questions please feel free to contact   and we will be more than happy to help you.Take care and be well! How about posting some scientific studies to support your “science” claims. All your references are to other articles making the same claims, and circularly referencing each other.Junk science if I ever saw it.Hi there, I am negotiating a salicylate sensitivity and I’m wondering if you are aware of the levels in hemp milk.  I see a mention of it earlier in this discussion but perhaps you have more information?  Thanks so much.
LéaThat’s too black and white. In general, you may be correct. However, milk (raw, high quality, pastured grass fed A-2 cows) has been used for thousands of years and in that state is a super food that has nourished many cultures. Probiotics, B-Vitamins and the like. We have been lied to by the diet dicto-crats about raw animal fat as history has proven the benefits. But again, I’m not talking about the drugged-up, commercial, low grade, pasteurized milk of today. Good high quality milk can still be found if you research and/or buy direct from the farmer. In California we have Claravale Farms and Organic Pastures which can be obtained through co-op stores, etc.I think it is important to know why growing hemp was made illegal ..                                                                                                                        ILL GOTTEN GAINS ROCKEFELLER DRUG WARS    IT WAS ON YOUTUBE .IF YOU CAN’T FIND IT THERE TRY MY FACEBOOK PAGE I TRY TO POST IT AS OFTEN AS I CAN.  I just checked my blood sugar it’s 5.2 that’s officially none diabetic . I take two things 1 is MALABIC sugar stabilizer and pure RSO CANNABIS oil every day. i had a stroke last year and i’m the only one  that can tell now one year ago  I also had high blood pressure  and it’s mostly normal these days I don’t take any Prescriptions ..6 months no side effects and i’m getting healthier  OH I drink  1 quart of hemp milk a day There are daily discoveries coming out on the efficacy of hemp and cannabis .i make my own hemp milk….4 cups of cold filtered water.half a cup of hemphearts…..blend for 3 minutes…..delicious….i also mass produce it and keep it refrigerated in an oversize mason jar.Im curious about the more precise amounts of the vitamins and acids in the hemp milk! I for one use whole hemp seeds, as shelled cost four times more…Would be nice to be able to calculate it more accuratly!
I got the values for the hemp seed so the real question i guess is what you lose when you mix em?SO WHERE AND HOW DO YOU BUY THE CANNABIS.  I LIVE IN FLORIDAWHAT ABOUT ADDING HONEY AS A SWEETENER AND PRESERVATIVE ?Please.. correct the article to say “vegans” instead of vegetarians in the last paragraph. Vegetarians can consume all the dairy they wany, while vegans refrain from egg, dairy and meat products. Otherwise, great informative article 🙂Pingback: ()Pingback: ()is the nature valley (walmart) omega 3-6-9 fish borage flax oil any good. i have been taking is since it is only $6 a bottle. it is supposed to move the aluminum out of your brain through your hair according to and Ed/Alex interview…Pingback: ()yes but where do u find this perfect milk I understand ca is having probels with raw milk now as is the rest of the country since the fda has outlawed unpasteurized raw milk, we bought a cow and live rural but can no longer provide raw milk. Using a small amt of homemade hempmilk is good for you!High grade marijuana buds, Hash,drugs and other strains for sale , call at (803) 271-0876 for more information We supply within the USA ,Europe and Canada and all over the world. Overnight shipping and very discrete. We have high quality medicinal marijuana and other best strains of kush for sale at moderate prices.Master Kush Master Kush X Northern Light OG Kush Purple Kush Big King Bud AK 47 BlueberryAK-48White Widow White Widow Feminized Big Bud Big Black Indica Big Bud X White Widow Weeds Hawaii-SkunkHindu Kush Super Skunk Super Silver Haze White RhinoYou can always contact us for more details..Email address : (robertdemsey9@gmail.com)Text or call (803) 271-0876 and also buy and sell and make money for your selfPingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()HEMP MILK WILL ONLY STAY GOOD FOR 3 DAYS OR SO ,HEMP OIL COULD POTENTIALLY KEEP FOR MONTHS IF KEPT CORRECTLYHONEY DOESNT SPOIL ,YOU COULD KEEP HONEY FOR 4000YEARS IF YOU WANTED AND YOU COULD STILL EAT IT ,BUT AS SOON AS YOU MIX IT WITH WATER IT WILL GO OFF WITHIN DAYSPingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()No offense but I guess you didn’t know that hemp seed is available from American growers. Hemp is now legal to grow here in the US. My seed comes from American Hemp Harvest in Colorado. I’m guessing that what they say on their site is true. (Grown and harvested in the US.) It seems to taste better than the Canadian seeds too.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()How much should i drink how often?Humans should not be drinking any form  of cow’s milk.  We are not baby cows so why do we drink their milk?Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Leaves contain THC.