Beloved by the Incas, lucuma is a super nutritious Peruvian fruit that contains , iron, zinc, vitamin B3, calcium, and protein. Its maple-like taste makes it a sweet addition to smoothies, baked goods, and even ice cream. Viewed as a symbol of  and creation, lucuma was called the “Gold of the Incas” and was used for a variety of applications. Recent research shows that lucuma may be helpful for supporting skin health, blood sugar, and even cardiovascular health.      Lucuma in its whole form looks similar to an avocado, with a hard green exterior covering the sweet, soft fruit. The flesh is yellow and has a texture that is slightly reminiscent to that of a dry egg yolk. Many people say the taste of lucuma reminds them of a cross between caramel and a sweet potato. While it does contain a mellow sweetness, it’s low on the glycemic scale and typically suitable for diabetics.Often, lucuma is sold in a powdered form, perfect for adding to  or baking recipes. Its soft taste and gentle aroma enhances most foods without directly influencing or impairing the overall taste of the recipe. Lucuma is grown sustainably in this region without the use of  and is intercropped with other plants to provide a wider benefit for farmers.In ancient records, lucuma fruit was said to be used to support skin health and digestion. Recent studies have shown that lucuma oil may be helpful for supporting wound healing by encouraging the activation of healing factors within the skin.     Lucuma was also used throughout the centuries to support , and research seems to agree. Studies show that lucuma has potent ACE inhibitory activities in vitro, possibly decreasing the effects associated with hypertension. Lucuma may also support normal blood sugar, giving researchers hope for finding additional nutritional support for those with type II diabetes. These results point to the excellent potential of Peruvian fruits as food-based strategies for blood sugar and blood pressure issues. Lucuma powder can be added to your morning smoothies or juices and can also be added to your dessert recipes as a . Many natural herbal supplements contain lucuma combined with other important herbs.Do you use lucuma? How do you enjoy it? Let us know in the comments!
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.Can anyone advise me on using products on my scalp such as Kerastase’s product Densifique which claims it’s use of stem-cells helps to improve hair texture, strength, volume and growth? Is this safe to use? I know a little about stem cell research and advocate it for what researchers believe it can potentially achieve. But am reticent to apply it to my scalp for some reason and I usually jump right in there and just trust a product based on the advertisements?
Are there better remedies to stimulate hair Regrowth and strengthen it?? Advise welcome and appreciated!!
Thank youPingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()so much is from the Incas!Where do you buy lucuma oil?Pingback: ()Pingback: ()I bought the powder at Sprouts, a health food-oriented grocery store. Navitas was the brand. Obviously, it can also be found on internet sites doing a google search. It doesn’t dissolve as quickly in cold drinks like ice tea, but it will dissolve with more stirring. Not bad! Of course, it’s not entirely sugar-free, so keep that in mind.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()I eat chocolate with lucuma and it is very good.I use lucuma powder in my raw chocolate recipe Pingback: ()Pingback: ()raw juice – lime, ginger, apple, carrot, struawberries, lucuma powder – yummy !In raw juice:
2 apples
3 carrots
1 lime
icm of ginger
4-6 strawberries
1 heaped teaspoon lucuma powder (but also tastes great without it)I just opened a bottle of SimplyNature (ALDI brand) Organic Lucuma & Mango Vinaigrette to have with my chicken salad and it was delicious!  I had to google what Lucuma was, because I had never heard of it, but thought it must be good if it was paired with Mango so I bought it.Better buy it in Peruvian stores in frozen pulp form which has the true taste unlike the powdered one. Ice cream is awesome, I do it with Knox gelatine, almond milk and honey all mixed in the blender or just as a milkshake minus the gelatine. Because of its pasty consistence, I find it does not agree well to mix it with other juicy fruits or even those like it.Pingback: ()