Although it is a 90% saturated fat, organic coconut oil contains medium-chain fatty acids (MCFAs) that can improve your health in many ways. One of the smartest choices of good fat you can add to your diet is organic virgin coconut oil. Yes, coconut oil.First of all, organic coconut oil is very stable to cook with because it withstands high temperatures without heat damage. If you switch your cooking oil to organic coconut oil, you can start improving your health right away.What’s more, you can easily digest the MCFAs in coconut oil. So, it’s a lot easier on your system than other oils. Plus, these hard-working fatty acids are immediately converted into energy rather than being stored in your body as fat. Overall, MCFAs help to , which is a great help to any weight loss program.Considered a functional food, organic coconut oil is now being recognized by the medical community as a powerful tool against immune system related diseases. Several studies have been done on its effectiveness in this area, and much research is currently underway concerning the incredible nutritional value of pure organic virgin coconut oil.Organic coconut oil is highly nutritious and contains a superior disease fighting fatty acid called lauric acid. It is also rich in fiber, vitamins, and minerals.The best kind to get is organic raw unprocessed extra virgin coconut oil. This will assure you that your product is unrefined, certified organic by USDA standards, and contains no added chemicals or  additives.You’ll also know your organic coconut oil is made only from fresh coconuts and is a solid at room temperature. The Philippines is the world’s largest exporter of organic coconut oil.You can help boost and regulate your metabolism to keep your weight under control with this wonder oil.Organic coconut oil is jam-packed with lauric acid, the immune supporting nutrient.Packed full of healthy fats that are good for your heart, organic coconut oil is a great addition to your daily diet.Organic coconut oil can help you feel less fatigued and require less sleep by stimulating your metabolism. It can also enhance athletic performance.Organic coconut oil helps to stimulate the activity and proper functioning of this important gland which provides energy, supports the health of your skin and metabolism, and keeps your moods in balance.Using organic virgin coconut oil as a lotion will help improve your skin, hair, and nails due to its moisturizing and smoothing effects that also promote elasticity.When your metabolic rate increases, your cell regeneration speeds up, too. This means that your body will more quickly replace old cells with newer, healthier cells.Teeming with lauric acid, organic coconut oil possesses abundant natural agents that may reduce fungus, bacteria and the viruses that cause influenza, herpes, and other illnesses.This helps to better utilize glucose to balance insulin output which can help relieve the symptoms and reduce the health risks associated with diabetes.Organic coconut oil may help protect your body from cell damaging free radicals.
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.hiya, doc.  i’m linking to your this post on my blog later on today.  thanks!Awesome post… I actually add coconut oil to my smoothies. but i had no idea that it was sooo healthy for you. Thanks!Ironic, some people on one of my forums were just asking about this the other day, then I pop in here to find this post today. Good info, I knew some benefits but this opened my mind to it a bit more!Thank you for spreading the word! I use coconut oil in place of butter (I can’t do dairy) as well as a facial moisturizer.Never knew that coconut oil was so beneficial… thanks, I think i’m gonna try it!Great blog post!I learned about coconut oil a few years back and now prefer it because of the way it cooks as well as the knowledge I’m boosting my immune system.  Anything I cook with coconut oil turns out a gorgeous colour. It’s amazing for roasted potatoes and I put a dollop in the cooking water when I’m making rice. I use it as much as possible. My husband didn’t want me to cook with it for his food because he was worried it would change the flavour of the food but it doesn’t taste like coconut at all.And it also makes a fantastic (relatively inexpensive) natural lubricant which doubles as a moisturizer!I’m curious how much of this one should try to use a day.  And other than cooking and smoothies any other clever uses?  I tried taking 1 tbsp per day for a while, I didn’t really notice any difference however I’m open to trying again- the benefits are hard to pass up.I use organic coconut oil in many of my hand made soaps and shampoos. I also get a great deal buying online in bulk!A relative’s son had HORRIBLE A topic dermatitis (a bad case of eczema) all over his body, but particularly on his feet, which swelled, turned red, scabbed, felt as rough as the texture of a rock and would often crack and bleed. He also had HORRIBLE cradle cap that was very thick. I slathered him in coconut oil. I put it on the top of his head and all over his body, paying special attention to the “HORRIBLE” areas and making sure I coated them several times. I put socks on him so he didn’t wipe off the coconut oil.The next morning, I combed the cradle cap out of his head. It never even bled and it NEVER CAME BACK! The eczema was ALMOST GONE! I was a slight pink color and only felt like sand paper. I slathered him two more times during the day and before he went to bed. The next morning, the eczema was GONE! It does come back if you don’t continue to use the coconut oil as a moisturizer though.Susan,
We have worked with major food and beverage manufacturers and you will be surprise to know how many of our daily food intake already contains coconut oil. Having said that, if you are a newbie with coconut products a good way to start is just by adding a spoon full of virgin coconut oil to your daily cup of coffee (no need for sugar). As your palette gets familiar with this new taste add it to your sea food, use 50% “your current oil and 50% Virgin Coconut Oil, then move to your meats and then your vegetables.  There is a long list of recipes for food and beverages compiled at Healthy Niche,Try frying shrimp (with skin or without) to a golden color. It takes only a minute and you will never eat shrimp any other way!Health food restaurants in the South East love it. Best seller for the last 3 years. If you happen to travel in Florida Canaveral area visit ” Grill’s Restaurant”, they use organic virgin coconut oil in all their cooking.great!  we are using coconuts in most of our recipes here in the
philippines.Thanks soooooo much for the recipie booklet…really great!….Peace and blessings!Coconuts are used widely and has most beneficial effects. That’s why it’s also called the Tree of Life because all of it’s parts can be used in best ways as possible. Thanks for more information Doc! It really helps.I think you article is very informative, it is surprising who many people still don’t know the benefits of Organic coconut oil.
I have been using organic coconut oil for about a year. I put it on my toast, make all my curries stews, lasagna in fact I use organic coconut in place of all the other oils I used to use, except I still make my salad dressings with Organic virgin olive oil. I also use it on my hair and skin.Wow I didn’t know it could help with metabolism! 😀 those are some really excellent benefits of coconut oil, I wish I’d have known this sooner. There’s also this product called the krill oil which I’ve read also does have many benefits. with all the pollution and the unhealthy foods we have nowadays, these are some of the things that we could take to stay healthy 🙂Hello
I’ve been suffering from eczema all my life and I just can’t stand it anymore. I’ve been using VCO for nearly a month now and I don’t see improvement ;( although VCO is supposed to be a great moisturiser I find that it doesn’t moisturise my skin well (eczema parts) I’m wondering if should take it internally instead. Do you think 1 tbsp will help cure me? Please help I’m desperate 🙁 thanksHey have u ever tried aloe Vera plant, it’s helped me with many skin problems !Hi, Fantastic article. The benefits of using Coconut Oil has really taken off over the past couple of years. I started imported Organic Virgin Coconut Oil from Sri Lanka after my visit to the country in the aftermath of the 2004 tsunami to help with emergency relief work.My mother and my son have both had luck with a moisturizer called U-Lactin.  We but it through the dermatologist, but they also have a website.  Good luck!That is a good brand, yes.-Dr. G.Hello, I have a son that had bad eczema all over his arms & around his mouth.  He wanted it gone so I tried Apple Cider Vinegar put in his bath water.  I had him stop taking the showers and add 3-4 cups of the vinegar to a warm bath every other night or at least 2 times a week.  I told him to make sure all his affected body parts were submerged for at least 15-20 min. and to just soak.  He did this and to our surprise it worked wonderfully.  After that he went to live w/his father & stopped doing it because I was not preparing the bath for him.  Anyway it all came back.  He started doing it on his own & it got under control.  No more dry itching, broken inflamed skin.  It healed, now he is 26 & he uses it still for control of it.  Plus, my granddaughter has it too.  She gets the bath soaks too.  However, the ratio of vinegar is different due to using less water.  We use 2 cups cause she is small & a half tub is all thats needed.  It works for us.  Any kind will do.  Even the Generic.  However, it must be the Apple Cider kind.  Hope this helps you!This is so good I have sjogrens an autoimmune disorder and this knowledge is so good thank youVery good read… some of you might also want to try making your own deodorant using approximately 1.5 parts coconut oil, 1 part baking soda, and 1 part cornstarch… cornstarch absorbs sweat, baking soda neutralizes odors, and coconut oil, as stated in this article, is antibacterial, so it prevents body odor too. also, it smells great. you can mix in a couple drops of your favorite essential oil for added fragrance if you’d like. Not only does this homemade deodorant save money, but it has less toxins than storebought deodorant and leaves way less residue on your skin and clothes. In addition, I’ve noticed insects are less attracted to my armpits now :pforgot to add that I always considered myself an abnormally sweaty person. But despite the fact that this recipe is for deodorant and that storebought deodorant is also an antiperspirant, my armpits sweat *much much much less* now that I use this recipe instead of buying deodorant.is it as good or better to just eat organic coconut?I have Sjogrens and I “swish” the coconut oil in my mouth for about 15-20 mins twice a day and then spit it out into the garbage.  This has helped me tremendously with my dry mouth symptoms and also helps to remove bacteria that comes along with the dryness of the mouth from Sjogrens.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Internally I have read.what is the best or what brand of coconut oil to usePingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()I use It on my hair , skin and use it in my food and it works greatPingback: ()Pingback: ()Coconut oil is very useful in recipes. It is much better than other oil. It is very healthy and tasty as compare to other oil. It is also known for its various different uses in the kitchen.Have been suffering from obesity. I already tried different solutions like drinking slimming juices and tea, taking slimming capsules, exercising, dieting until lately noticed that I’m already depriving myself. I think my solutions in getting rid with obesity has not been effective, unluckily. So I tried and ask from a friend and she suggested coconut oil. Oh my gosh. I really tried it and for earlier months I can already notice and feel the differences in my body. I can literally see the difference. And thanks to this organic product. Very helpful in myriad ways.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Good Morning
My name is Ellis and I work with Ninja Goat Nutritionals. Once I read your article, I found great interest in some of your ingredients and knowledge about coconut oil. I would love to tell you about my business and how I make butter coffee.  Ninja Goat Nutritionals makes a product called fatCoffee, which is a quick and easy way to make butter coffee anywhere, anytime- and it’s made with 100% grass fed-butter and organic coconut oil.
Would you be willing to try fatCoffee and let me know what you think about it? I’d be happy to provide a sample, if you can send me your mailing address.
Thanks for your time and hope to hear from you soon.Try Castro oil that what my sister use and ot works maybe you could try this. Pingback: ()srsly???Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Hi,
Very informative article with amazing benefits of coconut oil.  I really got benefits of using it on my hair and skin.  Now definitely looking forward to adding it to my food.  Thank you!!Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Its is a great home remedy although it helps during pregnancy as well. Keep it up thanks for this great share.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()It really helps a lot because even me I use it for my hair. Its effects have been proven effective in numerous studies and research.