    In the very short time since GMO foods were first introduced, they have tainted ecosystems, created financial strains for farmers, and introduced unnatural elements into the local, national, and global food supply.              GMOs pose a danger to all of us and the evidence is irrefutable. Environmentally, they have created superweeds that destroy farmland, and they have eliminated some organisms from ecosystems, leading to new superbugs to fill the void.  Much talk also centers around the health considerations. Unfortunately, researchers who attempt to test the alleged safety of these GMOs – and have found them decidedly unsafe! – get shouted down by the rank-and-file industry yes men who are intent on protecting the empire. Despite this, the research has shown a dramatically higher risk of health problems from eating GMOs and research shown that toxic DNA from these plants may survive digestion. It’s even been found in the blood of pregnant women and their fetuses!     Unfortunately, until the laws change and ban these destructive products, the best protection is to avoid them. The following list outlines the 20 top GMO foods and ingredients you absolutely must avoid.    According to the EPA, .  Keep in mind that that’s the United States Environmental Protection Agency — a government agency. Regardless, the FDA continues to rubber stamp its use.      Aspartame is made from aspartate, methanol, and phenylaline. Once ingested, the body breaks aspartame down into these constituent parts.  Most notably, methanol is converted into formaldehyde.  The US Department of Labor considers formaldehyde a toxic and hazardous substance that should not be ingested.  Recent research has demonstrated highly carcinogenic affects from aspartame consumption.  Additional research could not dismiss aspartame’s role in leukemia and non-Hodgkins lymphomas.  Entire books have been written about the dangers of aspartame.      In the quest for healthy living, this toxic, lab-created chemical tops any list of foods and ingredients to avoid!    The agribusiness cartels have assured us for years of their products safety and the mainstream media have smiled and winked right alongside them. However, now, even MSN is now reporting that GMO corn may be toxic.  Several studies have shown regular dietary consumption of Bt-corn (maize), the GMO version of corn, leads to serious health problems and negatively effects the kidney and liver (the dietary detoxifying organs), as well as in the heart, adrenal glands, and spleen.      Eating organic corn may be one way to eliminate exposure to this dangerous GMO.  As you will see below, corn appears in many more forms, making avoidance an exercise in awareness.    Of the nearly 130 million metric tons of sugar produced globally every year, sugar beets constitute nearly 35% of that sugar (the remaining amount coming from sugar cane).  These sugar beets are used to produce sucrose.     Unfortunately, they struggle to survive competition from weeds.  So a glyphosate (Roundup) version was created.  That way farmers could dump Roundup on the fields of sugar beets to kill off the weeds without killing the sugar beets.  Great idea — in addition to the glyphosate DNA, the plants are repeatedly coated with toxic chemicals during their growing cycle.      The best way to avoid sugar beets is to avoid products with sucrose (sugar), or any product that doesn’t specify sweeteners like organic agave or raw honey.    First, , which is likely to be a GMO strain.  It then goes through a process that converts corn into corn starch…which then is converted into corn syrup in a process involving bacterial enzymes and fungus. Finally, another bacterial enzyme is added to the process to produce fructose.  This is not a natural process and does not yield a natural product.    Mercury has been found in HFCS as a result of the manufacturing process.  Does HFCS lead to health problems?  Possibly, researchers from Princeton and Oxford have linked HFCS to weight gain and Type II diabetes.      To summarize, HFCS starts as a GMO, contains mercury, and has been linked to weight gain and Type II diabetes.  Just avoid it.    Soy beans are perhaps one of the most prevalent GMO products in fields today.  Soy has been associated with a wide range of health problems and GMO soy has been linked to pancreatic problems.     Soy lecithin isn’t even a choice soybean product, it’s a waste product from the processing of crude soy oil.  It typically contains solvents and pesticides.  Researchers have also found soy lecithin to contain allergens that have wide ranging health impacts.     As a rule, avoid soy unless it is organic and fermented (such as in miso or natto).  And make sure to avoid anything containing soy lecithin, the soy product constructed from the sludgy glop created during the creation of soy oil.    Corn starch is a highly processed corn product made from corn – genetically modified (GM) corn.  It offers no nutritional value and carries all the dangers associated with GMO foods.  It is used as an additive in many products and as a processed food, it creates digestive problems.  The problems with corn starch have been known about since the 1970s.  With the introduction of GMO corn, the problems have only increased.     When tested, genetically modified tomatoes have been found to have less antioxidant activity than their natural counterparts.  As is the case with GMOs, the genetic modifications result in overall reduced nutritional value.    Most sausage contains corn syrup or corn syrup solids, in addition to the other preservatives.  That’s right, the hot dog or Italian sausage you enjoy – even just once in a while – likely contains a GMO.  If you choose to eat sausage of any type, avoid the pre-packaged kind.  Your best bet is to purchase from a local butcher who specializes in locally grown, organic, free-range meats.    This delicious summer-time treat typically features a range of HFCS, corn syrup and corn starch, plus rGBH.  Unless the brand you buy is organic or home-made from organic ingredients, each spoonful of ice cream likely contains plenty of genetically-modified DNA and bovine growth hormones.    Many vitamins, including top children’s vitamins, use ‘vegetable’ products as a base for the vitamin.  Many of these ‘vegetables’ come from corn and soy products; many also contain aspartame and hydrogenate oils. Look for  that are specifically organic or non-GMO.        Milk that contains rGBH and genetically modified soy constitute the foundation for most infant formulas, unless they specifically state they are organic.  Research has found that infant diets including formulas that contain these GMOs contribute to chronic, long-term health conditions.     Beef feed may contain GMO alfalfa, corn and soy.  When cows eat GMOs, they get into their system and become part of the meat. If you’re going to eat beef, only consume organic, grass-fed beef.    Why let nature do things naturally when Monsanto’s recombinant Bovine Growth Hormone (rGBH) can be injected right cows to increase milk output. Never mind that hormones associated with rBGH have been found present in milk distributed for human consumption. Or that studies have also found milk from cows injected with rGBH contain reduced amounts of healthy fatty acids.  Or that these cows are more likely to have mastitis, an utter infection that can lead to blood and pus in the milk.  Yuck.    You can buy organic milk or  and avoid bovine growth hormones.  However, to keep all bovine growth hormones out of the diet, you also need to watch out for foods that contain milk products, as these may come from hormone-injected cows.    Although GMO alfalfa planting had been halted, as of this year, GM alfalfa returns to the fields.  Alfalfa is the backbone of the dairy industry, both organic farmers and industry groups.  So dairy, beef, and alfalfa will all be affected.  As an insect pollinated plant, cross pollination of GMO plants and non-GMO plants will likely result.    Vegetable Oil typically comes from corn, soybean, cotton, or canola oils.  All of these crops have been genetically modified to withstand being doused by Roundup.  Unless the vegetable oil states it is organic, assume it may contain some degree GMOs.    Canola oil gets its own category due to its prevalent use.  Aside from questions about an oil made from a plant toxic to human consumption, the rapeseed has been genetically altered.  As of 2009, 90% of Canada’s rapeseed crop was ‘herbicide-tolerant’.  When it comes to cooking oils, the best option is to find products specifically designated non-GMO.     These are another form of vegetable oil and contain all the GMO problems the vegetable oils contain.  To avoid GMOs from margarine, organic butter may be an option.    This type of genetically modified papaya primarily affects those living on the west coast.  Its GMO attribute is that its a virus-resistant plant specific to Hawaii and the areas that import papaya from Hawaii.  This plant contains DNA from the Ringspot virus, as do individuals who choose to eat it.     Many squash varieties have been genetically modified to fight off the diseases that can affect them.  When it comes to squash, buy organic.    GMO flax has been grown (illegally, for what it’s worth) in Canada.  The extent of Canadian contamination has not yet been determined.  Reports also indicate that the GM flax has been exported around the world where contamination has occurred.  Because of the environmental catastrophe of this rogue GM strain, identify the source of the flax used before you buy.  Flax from Canada may be infected, as well as from many areas of the EU.      When it comes to , the best answer is to search for foods that have been labeled as non-GMO.  If unsure, ask at the store or contact the manufacturer of the product.  If you find out it may contain GMOs, let them know they’ve lost your business.  Once GMOs become a marketing liability, then the industry itself will reject GMOs.    Have you stopped consuming GMOs or ? Please leave a comment and share your experience with us!  
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.Thanks for sharing Edward. Do you believe the same is true for Europe as it is in USA?Europe does have more strict standards and is less influenced by Monsanto but it’s still a good idea to verify the foods you purchase are organic and free of GMOs.For sure. ThanksI am finally reading Seeds of Deception. The more I read, the madder I get. I have been signing petitions for a couple of years now and thought I knew a lot but in reading this book, it’s obvious that it’s a lot more widespread than I could have ever imagined. Shame on Monsanto and shame on the US government for being bought out by this horrible company. Death to GMO’s!Thanks Carolyn and please continue to spread the word, GMOs MUST STOP!Dr. GWe are trying, but it seems everywhere I turn, there’s a GMO in something! We’ve been shopping organic and our grocery bill has doubled but with two small children, it’s well worth it. Monsanto is sickening! Glad to hear it, Andrea! How have you felt since cutting that stuff out of your family’s diet?
-Dr. Edward GroupIt appears I need to google Monsanto…..Yes, and tell your friends. Everyone needs to be aware of what Monsanto is doing!
-Dr. Edward GroupThis is a very biased article on which a lot of the facts are not correct.
Pertaining to the milk section just to choose one of many wrong statements. You do realize that “organic” cows also get mastitis and other udder problems. Also milk with blood or pus is not viable to use within the indistry, there are specific protocols put into place for safety reasons.Think about it for a minute though, why would a producer use a product that would cause infections, which would prevent their milk from selling which would set them back dramatically let alone all the milk that would go to waste because it isn’t fit for consumption. So really, would a rational producer make such a dumb decision that would be a dramatic economical setback?Also the thing with hormones is they are either readily used up by the cow or there is such miniscule amounts which would hav no effect in humans. for example estrogen given to beef cattle like the a&w new marketing scam.These hormones will be used up within 180 days of given in which it takes longer than that for a steer or Geiger to be finished ans sent to slaughter. Also you probably get more hormones in other “safe foods” than the amount in the meat. Many vegetables have more estrogen than that found in the meat. Yeah okay, except there isn’t much debate about pus in milk, check this out-“Probably get more hormones”? your statement sounds anecdotal and you sound mad. You mad, bro?Very interesting reads! I never knew the real side of the story.great reads.My husband and I are very conscientious about not eating GMO foods.  I know I am annoying to my family, but I am trying to help them understand and encouraging them to do their own research about the dangers of GMO foods.  Thanks for the great article.  There were some foods on this list I didn’t know about.I’m surprised that wheat did not make it on the list of top deadly [and consumed] GMO products. Ever since my family and I stopped eating wheat (except for organic ancient grains) we have all surprisingly seen allergies disappear, mysterious coughs go away, asthma cured, weight loss, etc.Good point. What are your preferred ancient grains? ? ?A lot of this is false information and a misunderstanding of scienceThe population is not living longer – in fact this is the first generation where the parents will outlive the children. The quality of the food is seriously decreasing, the government is subsidizing all the garbage foods and looking the other way while Monsanto is killing us in the name of profit. The people are getting sicker and fatter and getting poisoned by all the chemicals in their food supply. GMOs have not been proven safe in the long term. Sure you may not die today or tomorrow but you will die before your time and your offspring will also pay the price and so on.At least here in Canada our dairy laws are very different that the US – it is illegal for our farmers to use hormones on our herds and if the animal must be given antibiotics it is removed from the herd for the duration of treatment and until it has been cleared.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Thank you for all this wonderful information! My family and I have recently started a GMO free diet! When something is labeled organic does that automatically mean it is GMO free? There are currently no GMO tomatoes in production. As for squash, only Yellow Straightneck, Yellow Crookneck and green Zucchin have been approved and are in wide production. The best way to avoid GMOs is to stick to a whole food diet, avoid junk food, and eat organic as much as possible.yes-organic by definition cannot be genetically modified.There is no GMO wheat in commercial production, although field trials continue in North America and there may have been some contamination of neighbouring crops.
Wheat however has been continually and heavily hybridized to promote certain traits. The jury is still out though on whether or not the high gluten content contributes to digestive problems, or whether pesticides used on the fields is the culprit.You can help by joining a group dedicated to banning GMOs, promoting labelling of GE products, and helping to educate your community. It’s going to take a coordinated effort to win this fight. Look for one of the GE Free groups on Facebook, or start one in your community.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Ron Heinen, My wife and I have been trying to treat her gluten intolerance for 6 years at least. What we’ve found to lower her symptoms is go organic and on a resent trip to Italy she could eat all wheat products produced there. When we returned I ordered flour produced in Italy and she is now happily making her own bread and pizzas and all other wheat containing items. Someone please tell me why it is that wheat produced in the US is toxic to her but wheat produced in Europe is not.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Why they permit all this type of food for selling? Why we should avoid, if everything very easy: just create new law and do not permit those production. yes, will be less money, less food, and more healthy slim people.Perhaps it’s not the gluten but the heavy herbicide contamination.  U.S. wheat is sprayed with Roundup (glyphosate) to dry it out for easier harvesting.  This spraying is also done with legumes, oats and other grains, sugar cane, to name a few.  The residue remains on the food product.  Quaker Oats strawberries and cream instant oatmeal was recently found to have 1,379 ppm of glyphosate; Europe allows 1 ppm in their food!  We are living in one sick country, double entendre intended.  I also buy wheat products and pasta produced in Italy, for the above cited reason.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()That information is not true.Which part of it? Please elaborate.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()This is so true! I went off the natural diet of GMO’s free food and milk and guess what……not only did I gain weight but because of this I have been extremely ill with stomach issues and intestinal issues. I also suffer from allergies now than I have ever had! People seem to think I am off the deep end on this topic, but my own health is proof of the problems that GMO’s and RBgh and other hormones and allergens given cows. I am now back on a GMO free and organic lifestyle and all the issues with my stomach, intestines and allergies have stopped!
People don’t seem to realize that this is killing people faster! It is causing people to become sterile and have cancer! It causes allergies and sickness!
Look you don’t have to listen or believe anything that I say, do your own research and find out for yourself! I can tell you this much for sure, there was a meeting of all the top people around the world on certain chemicals they would not allow on or in food and there was 12 chemicals that were banned. Then guess what??? The United States brought back 7 of the 12 and approved them. That was in 1988. The countries around the world will not accept foods that have these chemicals because of the health issues they cause but the United States allows all but 5……this tells me that they do NOT care about you and me! Guess what? The people that work for monstanto do not eat the crap they produce so that should tell you something big!!!
Good luck to you all, I hope you wake up before it’s too late!This is a really great article. I try to avoid GMOs as much as possible.  It’s hard nowadays… especially when you’re going out to eat or eating over a friend or families house and they’re not careful with the ingredients. Everyone thinks I’m the crazy one because I won’t eat it. But I’m just trying to keep my health!!  I wish more people were aware and felt the same. It’s so sad. Pingback: ()Good article!I heard of GMO but honestly did not pay attention to it till my Grandson had to write a essay on pro and cons of GMO, and also saw a movie CONSUMED true facts.  It woke me up.  I see it is greed again that destroys us.  Others countries are labeling it.  United States finally said they label but are still not doing it on all.  I wonder how this will infect our children and furture. My daughter notice that the vegtables are bigger, will that make us fatter and other allergies and rashes that come from GMO.  THEY SAID THAT GMO IS GOOD BUT THERE IS A BAD SIDE TO IT.  WE ARE GINNY PIGS TO THIS .  I HOPE MORE OF AMERICA WILL WAKE UP LIKE I DID……Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Terrible,why do they need to add this crap to food?probably running out with all these people coming hereIt’s in white Castle hamburgersIt’s what they want,eliminate usPingback: ()Pingback: ()I stopped eating and feeding my family GMOs years ago. My first reason was because of my daughter. She was diagnosed with a terminal cancer at the age of 2 months old. After a long and heatbreaking 3 years plus 2 miracles, I began to educate myself about our bodies and food including the sources it came from. I had a 3rd chance to keep this beautiful little girl alive and I was going to do everything in my power to do so. My house only has organic or Non-GMO food, no red meat and only wild caught fish. She is 16 years old now,  vegetarian by choice, and disease free. I have my own stomach issues so cutting out ALL GMOs has made us feel and live better.   All of us can feel the difference after the change plus the benefits of not getting ill, not even a cold in years, is enough validation for us. We cheat occasionally when we go out, and that’s ok. 🙂On another note besides GMOs we have to deal with reducing exposure to EMFR (electromagnetic field radiation).Pingback: ()Pingback: ()While I think the intentions are there, this article is very misleading and unscientific. Unless you are actually educated in Biochemistry, genetics and molecular biology, to spout such claims is quite dangerous and analogous to fearmongering.Pingback: ()Go to places that make everythibg whole organic hippy stores and eat at panera they are lovely and i also frequent jamaican health food storees they pride themselves on their love of all natural and they have excellent remedys available but u wud have to ask personally like a secret lol
And of.course going to not whole foods go to trader joes or order online and have it shipped to you…there afe so many actually more cost effective online delivery svcs that help to stretch yr dollar by purchasig from local farmers markets for you, yalla.check em out woman!
And congratulations on yr new kid 😁Yeah i googled that… the pdf of all their legally foodlike  ingredients is sooo grossPingback: ()Pingback: ()You are all idiots GMOs are not bad for you at all infact they are helping the world. this website is calming that GMOs are taking away nutrients from foods when infact ot is doing the exact opposite. In many 3rd world contrary peoples diet is largely based on rice but standard white rice dose not contain essential vitamins like vitamin A. Without this vitamin their are many people in those 3rd world conties that are blind or are going blind. Bio-technologist have geneticly modifided a new golden rice that contains vitmin A to slove this problem. but its people like you that say “death to GMOs” that have distroyed field where this important reserch id being done.I THINK IF U ASK GOD FOR WISDOM HE WILL SHOW U HOW TO PROTECT YOUR BODY LIKE I DID..IM 100% SURE GMO WAS RUINING MY BODY..JUST PRAY YALL FOR WISDOM..Hello Hilary, please can you help me understand the difference between GMO and heavily hybridized crops?