Earlier this year, I had a day where I experienced a sore throat and sinus irritation. I didn’t reach for a box of any over-the-counter remedy, instead I juiced a fair amount of ginger and  and added it to a tea. I was very satisfied with the relief I felt. My experience was nothing new; ginger, or ginger root, has been cultivated and used therapeutically for thousands of years. Traditional medicine systems all over the world have applied it to a wide range of ailments, including calming an upset stomach. Recent studies of ginger have confirmed this effect and much more…        Clinical studies have proven ginger’s effectiveness at calming nausea and vomiting.  Research has also confirmed its potential against chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting (CINV). The majority of studies found a positive effect against this side effect of aggressive therapies.  Ginger may be a powerful option for those suffering from toxic medical procedures like these.  Ginger has also been historically used for , constipation, , and other digestive complaints. In addition to these gastro-protective effects, researchers have found ginger to be effective for stress related ulcers. Ginger contains compounds that have demonstrated protective effects for the brain. One of them, known as 6-Shogaol, inhibited the release and expression of redness-causing chemicals known to cause damage to neurons in both in vitro and in vivo models.  The other, 10-gingerol, when sourced from fresh ginger, similarly impacted production of nitric oxide and other chemicals that lead to redness and swelling in the brain.   In a clinical trial, 100 patients received ginger powder or a drug given to migraine sufferers. The results showed the ginger powder helped reduce migraine related discomfort… without side effects.   Research data has shown ginger possesses UV absorbing capabilities that protect against DNA damage related to UVB (ultraviolet-B) light. Extracts from ginger stimulated  production, suggesting protective effects against potentially damaging UV light. Ginger has repeatedly demonstrated powerful blood sugar balancing effects. It acts on insulin release and sensitivity, and supports the metabolism of carbohydrates and lipids.  In one study, insulin levels noticeably lowered with ginger supplementation.  In addition to its effectiveness as a blood sugar stabilizer, ginger has also demonstrated powerful protective effects against diabetic kidney, eye and .Thai medical practitioners have traditionally used herbs such as ginger to support healthy blood pressure. Extracts from ginger and other herbs used in Thai therapeutic recipes were evaluated for their effectiveness against hypertension. The ginger extract was the most effective.   A recent in vitro study tested ginger against drugs used for osteoarthritis — the ginger extract was demonstrated to be as effective.  Another study involving 43 osteoarthritis patients found ginger to be as effective and more safe than the NSAIDs.   A recent 2013 study has evaluated ginger for use in relieving muscle discomfort in female athletes. Over the course of this 6-week trial, participants taking ginger reported a significant decrease in muscle soreness as compared to the placebo. One of the active compounds in ginger, 6-gingerol, has been isolated, tested and determined an active factor in regulating blood pressure and supporting cardiovascular health. Based on the results, researchers are exploring the potentials of ginger as a remedy for cardiovascular problems. Ginger has an extremely robust flavor which makes consuming it a little bit tricky. It might be too strong to ingest on its own, but as I mentioned, it mixes incredibly well into tea or juice, it can be a great ingredient in a recipe, and you can also find it as an ingredient in some healthy snacks.    What’s your favorite way to consume it? Please leave a comment below and share with us!    
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.I steam or freeze ginger to soften it and then keep it in a jar covered with organic apple juice, which takes away some of the bitterness and makes it more palatable.  It is a one-stop miracle remedy, keeps the immune system strong and does kill viruses and bacteria if one takes enough.Great idea, Lady Sara, thanks for sharing!
-Dr. Edward GroupThanks Dr Edward for sharing insightful healthy article
about ginger. Ginger is proven medicine for colon cancer. By consuming ginger we can prevent, reduce the colon cancer. And nowadays many people are not aware of cancer diet. And most of the people are addicted to junk food or fatty foods its takes longer to digestive. I hope after the reading this article every one
will get aware of ginger diet.Thanks for the comment, Juanita. I wouldn’t go so far to say that ginger is a stand alone cancer preventative but it is absolutely a food that should be included in everyone’s diet — its benefits are simply undeniable. Share the article with your friends, we all need to know about the positive things ginger can do for our health!
-Dr. Edward GroupU can mix it with boiling tea. U can also use it for making Indian curry /dal/ kadhi. U can also extract giner juice, add with one teaspoon of honey and drink it.All are great uses, thanks Siddhi!
-Dr. Edward GroupI make ginger tea for gas or if I have a cold or sore throat.  I also use it for the chronic I have in my hands.  Ginger alleviates the pain instantly.  Unlike the pharma drug that the doctor perscribe, ginger promote pain free hands without side effects.  The side effects from the drug that I got from the doctor was:  heart attack, stroke, sudden death, internal bleeding.  I did not used the tablets as yet when I was watching tv and they were advertising the drug and when I saw the side effects, I said no.  When I went back to the doctor and I told what I had found out, he told me not to take the drug. I told I had already thrown them out in the garbage.   I asked him did you that these were the side affects, he answered yes.The pain I experience in my hand is only because of the repetitive movements because of my profession.  Now, see how that  drug could have end my life just because of pains in my hand. Also, only God knows what damage it would have caused.I have always been a strong believer in natural healing.I really like combining lemon juice, ginger and apple cider vinegar with water and think it taste pretty yummy.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()I started eating 1 1/2-2 ounces per day. In the beginning, a few tears visited my face, but after 1/2 an hour, the overall sensation pays off.Doing thin slices is easier to eat, and with the help of a sugarless tea or some juice, it is even easier.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()I boil fresh ginger with whole cinnamon sticks and drink hot and cold.  I’m diabetic and this keeps me out of trouble and lowers my glucose levels all dayPingback: ()Pingback: ()I like to make a ginger syrup by grating about a half pound of Ginger and boiling it for about a half hour. I then use a fine mesh strainer to get rid of the solids. Next I add a half cup of organic brown sugar and 1/4 stick of cinnamon. Boil it down to a thick syrupy consistency. I add about a tablespoon to club soda for a delicious ginger soda or straight into a cup and add hot water for an incredible tea. Last Xmas I used cranberries instead of Cinnamon or use lemon or lime zest to switch it up. It’s delicious and healthy. Use honey instead of brown sugar if you like. You also have control over the amount of sugar/honey you use. Your not limited to using it as a drink.  I’ve made delicious ginger chicken, ginger pork, and ginger lamb.  Just use the syrup and your imagination. Enjoy.
JimI cut the ginger into small pieces and swallow them whole because of the strong tastePingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()I peel the top layer, cut the ginger in thin bite size slices and soak it in a glass container filled with apple cider or white vinegar for 3-4 days and eat it with my meals . You can give it a little twist by adding little bit sugar,different fresh herbs . I have tried Mint,Rosemary,Dill,green chillies,red chillies. EnjoyPingback: ()Pingback: ()I am also a diabetic who is now using ginger to manage my sugar levels. No pills or shots for me.My local health food store sells ginger root in small diced sized cubes. Easier to snack on with smaller bite sized pieces. Great for cooking soups with too. I add one tea spoon of ginger powder (home made) into 1 cup of fresh milk (warm or hot) mix with one tablespoon of organic honeyI grind fresh (peeled) ginger in a food processor and then add lots of honey and lemon juice.  I eat it by the small spoonful and though it is a bit harsh on the throat I rinse it by little bit of water.peel a whole very fresh root, chop and place in a food processor, fine grind, transfer to a small pot, add juice of half a lemon and honey (1 cup of ground ginger, 1/2 cup of honey). Bring to a boil, then reduce to low heat, uncovered for about 15 minutes, add more honey if required. Refrigerate up to 4 weeks. I eat a spoonful each morning before breakfast. Great with hot or cold water, or for cooking (especially with grilled salmon). I just rough chop a couple of large pieces of ginger root & simmer them in a quart of water for 20-30 minutes.  Strain the tea through a fine sieve.  That’s it!Thanks for this great informationPingback: ()I have it, morning and night, with fresh lemon juice, honey, cayenne pepper, and hot water.This is great information. Thank you. I’m going to make some ginger syrup and use it in beverages and to season shrimp and some meats.I been taking fresh blended with just water GINGER ROOTS  for over 7 to 10  years . how ? i start first day by drinking 3 pound of fresh GINGER ROOTS before going to have a arteries ultra sound for stroke i been drinking every day 2 to 3 pounds . now i still drink in empty stomac ONE POUND EVERY MORNING. NOT WITH TEA JUST STRAIGHT  3 T0 4 GLASSES .IT IS GOOD FOR EVERYTHING ANTY CANCER  PAIN BLOD CIRCULATION  ENERGY DIGESTION IS AN ANTIBIOTIC  MORE AND MORE .Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Am from the Caribbean, we grate ginger throw hot water cover and let it simmer for several hours, strain and sweetened. refrigerate drink cold. its call ginger beer.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Golden milk. I boil about 1/2 cup of shredded ginger root with 1,2 tbsp coconut oil, 10-20 grounds of pepper, 1,2 tbsp of tumeric paste (tumeric boiled in water and refrigerated). Strain the ginger solids and pepper corns. Add 1,2 tbsp organic honey and serve.Pingback: ()I brew it with my tea…also I’ll cut a piece about size of dime, swallow like a pill….but every time I make a gallon of tea, I brew the ginger with the tea bags, let it sit for an hour or so….been doing this for awhile, if I forget to add, it’s just not the same….love it in coffee as well….I cut a few pieces, add 2 tbs of coffee in the filter, place the ginger in top, add 2 more tbs…brew coffee…I’m trying to grow my own….Pingback: ()Whats 2 to 3 pounds?..Do u mean glasses?..Or do I suppose to weigh the ginger root then boil it and drink it?Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()i said 2 to 3 pounds i weight the ginger clean them an blinded than i squeeze  the juice and drinke it but i do add 16 oz of water to blende it eazely.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()i chew ginger wit honey .i believe ginger is good for menpls doctor edward i wan to kno if its good for men in general thanksPingback: ()1).    I brew it with my macho green tea…….I grate it into the liquid, milk or water, heat liquid, then strain
2). Add it to my smoothie I hope it helps my digestive concernsPingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()I recently started to grate ginger and drink with sliced lemon in hot water. I recently had a couple of viral infections in recent years after which generally my body temperature would be quite high, it got to a point where if I put my hands in a bowl of hot water my body would also suddenly get hot. Within a couple of weeks of drinking it twice daily morning and night I noticed that my body temperature had gone back to normal. I also had a fungal toenail which has also since grown out and it’s back to how it should be so would highly recommend this .Pingback: ()My health juice mix:40oz distilled water
1 whole lemon
1 whole lime
1 heaping spoon Ginger Powder
1 heaping spoon Cinnamon
12oz Honey
8oz Apple Cider VinegarAdd to a clean 64oz old juice bottle. Add ingredients in starting with water,  then honey, ginger, cinnamon.Cut lemon and lime into 3/8 slices, remove seeds. Make sure they are of a size that will not come out of the bottle when pouring. Place slices in flat bowl. Press the sections of the slices with fingers squeezing out all the juice. Be sure no more seeds are present in with juice & slices. Pour lemon, lime juice into the bottle.  Add the slices to the bottle.8oz Apple Cider Vinegar to suit your own taste. Otherwise, if you are fighting a cold, bronchitis or similar illness, add more vinegar. It will taste stronger, but, ti will fight the infections.Powdered spices don’t mix well with fluids. Shake the bottle thoroughly. Then pour or drink. The collective health features, substances in the mix can do a number of good things for you. I have stopped drinking caffeine drinks, because the alertness from this mix does the job without the jitters.I use 1.7 oz each morning and night in a nutritious smoothie I make.