Cilantro and coriander are the names used in the United States to describe two different parts of the same plant, . It’s an annual herb, which means it blooms and must be replanted yearly. Cilantro is used to describe the green, citrus-flavored leaves. Coriander is the common name for the plant’s light brown seeds, which are dried and used as a cooking spice. Exactly what you call, or how you use, this amazing plant varies depending on where you live in the world, but its health benefits remain the same. Cilantro can help , it’s an incredible source of antioxidants, it’s loaded with vitamins and minerals, and it has a long history of culinary and therapeutic use.            A great source of vitamins and minerals, cilantro should be considered a , or at least a “superherb.” A small amount delivers the full daily value of vitamin A and K and is rich in vitamin C, potassium, and manganese. Cilantro is a great, low-calorie option for those who want to add more nutrients and flavor to their diet. Below is the full nutritional breakdown for 3.5 oz. of raw cilantro leaves.         Beyond its nutritional benefits, cilantro is a powerful, cleansing agent that specifically targets toxic metals. We are constantly exposed to toxic metals like , , and . Toxic metals tend to accumulate in the endocrine system, muscle tissue, and even deep within the bones. Once these metals reach dangerous levels, many serious health problems occur. Common side effects of toxic metal exposure include hormone imbalance, oxidative stress from free radicals, and, in extreme cases, impaired organ function. Don’t wait to experience harsh side effects before cleansing your body.    Mercury, for example, can have a devastating effect on your health. Many people who suffer from  report feeling more clear headed after consuming large amounts of cilantro over an extended period. is also far more common than many people realize and has many adverse effects on the body. In animal studies, cilantro has been observed to protect against lead-induced oxidative stress.     Cilantro helps  by supporting the body’s natural detoxification processes. Compounds in cilantro leaf bind to toxic metals and loosen them from affected tissue. This process allows metals to be released from the body naturally. You can access these benefits by consuming the raw leaves or ingesting concentrated extracts. Unfortunately, fresh cilantro goes bad very quickly. If you want to be sure to always have access to its detoxification power, supplements may be a good alternative.     Supplements are an excellent choice when fresh cilantro isn’t available or if you find its taste unpalatable. I recommend Global Healing Center’s own . Zeotrex is a blend of powerful herbs, including cilantro, which help promote overall health by encouraging detoxification of harmful chemicals and toxic metals.    On that note, it’s a good time to mention that not everyone appreciates the distinctive flavor of cilantro. One explanation for the difference in flavor perception is the absence of a particular gene called OR6A2. The lack of this gene seems to be common in those who report a foul taste.    Cilantro has strong antioxidant activity.Cilantro may help prevent cardiovascular damage.Cilantro has been shown to promote calm feelings.Some studies report that cilantro encourages normal blood sugar levels.Cilantro may help improve sleep quality.Coriander seed oil possesses  that may reduce oxidative stress.Research conducted by The Dental School of Piracicaba in Brazil reported that cilantro oil has potential against an oral form of the candida fungus.Cilantro has demonstrated neutralizing activity against several .Cilantro may help support neurological health by discouraging oxidative stress.Coriander seed encourages normal fluid balance and urine flow.Vitamin K supports healthy bones, and eating even a small amount of cilantro provides the recommended daily serving of vitamin K.Cilantro contains nutrients, including vitamin A, which support eye health.Cilantro leaves and coriander seed are used to produce essential oils that act as natural food preservatives.  James A. Duke, Ph.D., a former botanist for the U.S. Department of Agriculture and author of “The CRC Handbook of Medicinal Herbs,” has praised cilantro for the way it supports the digestive system. He recommends drinking tea made from the leaves for any form of stomach discomfort. Additionally, cilantro may encourage normal bowel movements.        Cilantro is easy to grow, and it’s convenient to have fresh cilantro ready to use. Cilantro grows quickly and does not always transfer well, so plan on growing your cilantro from seed. Cilantro leaves stop growing and become bitter after the plant flowers. That is why it’s best to plant your cilantro in spring and fall, avoiding the longer, hotter summer days in-between.    Plant cilantro seeds in well-drained, well-fertilized soil. Choose a spot that gets full sun. Sow several seeds together one-quarter inch into the soil and six to eight inches apart. Water after planting and when the soil is dry to the touch.     Expect to wait three to four weeks before harvesting the cilantro leaves. Leaves can be harvested anytime during the growing process, but you should wait until the plant is at least six inches in height. If you want to harvest the leaves continually, sow new seeds every two to three weeks. Unlike other herbs, cilantro leaves lose most of their flavor when dried, so it’s better to use them fresh. If you need to preserve them, freezing is the best option.     The seeds of the cilantro plant—coriander—require a different approach. The seeds can be used for planting or can be dried and used in a culinary capacity. Wait to harvest the seeds until most have turned brown on the plant. Cut off the stalk a few inches below the seeds. Tie the stalks in bunches and hang them upside down in a brown paper bag. After about five days, the dried seeds should fall from the stalks into the bottom of the bag. You can store the seeds in an airtight, glass container for up to a year. To release the flavors, dry-roast or grind before use.    Cilantro has been used in a variety of ways throughout recorded history. Ancient Greeks used cilantro essential oil as a component of perfume. During medieval times, the Romans used cilantro to mask the smell of rotten meat. Cilantro was also one of the first herbs to come to North America from the British colonies back in 1670. Today, cilantro leaves and coriander seeds are used in many types of cuisine.The popularity of cilantro is owed to its fantastic flavor and versatility. For those who love cilantro, the possibilities are endless. From salsa and soup to meat or vegan curry, cilantro is a delicious ingredient, garnish, and flavor enhancer. For healthy, vegan recipes with cilantro, check out our  or .How do you use cilantro? Do you have a favorite cilantro recipe? Share your experience and leave a comment below. 
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.Thank you so much for this article. I will eat more cilantro from now on…
Best.
ABI was just eating a dish with cilantro, which I was only introduced to this year. I thought I would look up the benefits of cilantro…thank you for such an informative site! I have really been enjoying learning about foods and my body and how they work together for good! FDA approved drugs are often dangerous for us. My dad always treated us with vitamins, herbs or something natural vs pharmaceutical..if possible! We are much healthier for that! I heard cilantro also helped to prevent cancer. Have you found any research on that?Where in your references is there proof that cilantro helps to remove metals?I should like to begin by having a small patch of home-grown Cilantro, which I was told would be good to treat memory associated problems. Is it true, that were I to ingest small portions of Cilantro – I stand to benefit???“We also found Chinese parsley accelerates the excretion of Hg, Pb, and A1 from the body though the urine.”In Australia we call cilantro coriander, I think that you only refer to the fruit as coriander and the leaf as cilantro.  Cilantro or Coriander is great for reducing guilt.  Coriander is high in many vitamins and minerals, folic acid,
5-hydroxytryptophan, and is one of the highest natural sources of
S-adenosyl-L-methionine. Because coriander is generally not cooked for
long these chemicals are not denatured as they often are in other foods. By themselves each of these natural chemicals will significantly reduce guilt, when they are together in this plant they have a far greater effect!Do you make it as teaYou could but I think most people just eat it.Tried and true: store the cilantro stems and all in a salad spinner in the fridge. Toss it every few days. The air layer in the spinner keeps it dry and fresh, for up to three weeks.  I am actually growing cilantro. Just not sure when to pick it. How is it best used to help anxiety?Eat it!As a tea it is healing and cleansing for the kidneys.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()I use it in salads , salsa , today I put a bunch in an omelet (yummy) great when cooking chicken .just anything you’d  like to put it in ,,, maybe not morning cereal ;/  lol    🙂 I eat it on a reg basis for over a year now and even my blood pressure is lower I sleep better, less anxiety ..maybe its power of suggestion? but  im definatly keeping my cilantro and personally I love the flavorPingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Cilantro is great at pulling heavy metals from tissues. Yes this is true. But it does not pull them OUT of the body!
Using cilantro as a metal detoxer alone is very dangerous and I hope people do there own research before blindly trying to do it.
When cilantro pulls the metals out it redistributes them all over the body, often times leaving the person in worse shape than before.
Also, if you still have analgam dental fillings, you cannot metal detox until after you have them removed. Otherwise you are pulling metals from your mouth and putting them into your organs.
Look into “binders”. Like bentonite clay, Terramin clay, activated charcoal, etc.Pingback: ()I have been told that my daughter (15) was injected with metals through a vaccine that she received in school.  She has been suffering with sore joints.  I was hoping that a cilantro detox program would help her.  Do you know?Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Apparently if you use chlorella with the cilantro the chlorella will take the heavy metals out of the body.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Is Cilantro is a good herbs to eat or make smoothies for the kidneys;If not can you tell me the best herbs for the kidneys.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Hahaa I bought a nice bunch of Cilantro, not knowing what to do with it so I did not want it to go bad and not even get a taste so I had BBQ ribs and rice needed some gravy so I chopped up onion, little sweet peppers to saute’ in butter to make gravy added some flour and milk water as it thicken I chopped up some of the cilantro and tossed in gravy, gave it a few stirs, guess what , best gravy on rice I had made. was yummy goodOh I forgot . Now that I have found your great information I know more about cilantro and how to consume it. Thanks to
 GHC,Pingback: ()Pingback: ()whenever I am ill, or feeling run down, I CRAVE cilantro. My husband doesn’t like it, so I have to use it as a fresh addition to my own salad or cooked dish, but whenever I am stressed, cilantro seems to be a particular choice. I have read that many think it is akin to parsley, but it is not. I have grown it on my deck, and picked it fresh to add to my breakfast eggs. I love it, and know that I am healthy and balanced when I hav eaten enough cilantro that I no longer CRAVE it. Pay attention to your body; it will actually tell you what it needs. Good health to everyone.Cilantro cannot and will not hurt you. I found it easy to grow on my patio, in a pot, from seed. I would walk out and munch on it all summer long, before my morning coffee. It is great with eggs, too. Easy to grow from seed, and actually gratifying, if you have never grown much herbs, and I found it made me want to grow other herbs because I was so successful growing cilantro. If you like Mexican or Vietnamese or Chinese food, cilantro will be a good herb to grow, as it goes very well with all those culinary types, in my experience.Yes! Add it in the last few minutes of cooking, for best results. Even canned soup tastes better, when cilantro is added at the last minute before serving.Sounds delightful!Cilantro is good, and listen to your body: it will tell you what to eat or drink. Your kidneys need WATER, clean water, and any vegetables or fruits that are water-based, like cucumber, apple, tomato, or the like. Look at the food: does it contain or hold a lot of water? then it is probably good for your kidneys. Any cleanse you do must involve a lot of water. In a bath, in a soup, teas, whatever you take in though eating, drinking, or bathing: when you seek to cleanse, water and water containing dishes are good for you. Clean, fresh water can never hurt you, and will help all your major organs perform their functions better. Good health and good life to you; if you are asking these questions, you are already on the road to a healthy life!Would cilantro essential oil work just as well….. and what should I put with it to help it get the mercury out of my body…. I can not afford to get the fillings out but would like to help my body rid the mercury on a daily basis…