  Kelp is a form of seaweed found in shallow ocean waters and forms thick colonies that could almost be described as an “underwater forest.”  If you’ve ever gone for a morning run on the beach, you may have seen it washed ashore, often attracting flies.  For most people, this scene is enough to discourage the idea of eating seaweed.  However, kelp is a natural super food loaded with trace minerals, amino acids, vitamins and minerals.  Most notably, kelp is a rich, natural  which can provide adequate levels to stimulate a sluggish thyroid and encourage a healthy metabolism.    A well operating metabolism is key for maintaining ideal body weight.  Your metabolism, which is regulated by your , is the part of your body responsible for the way you use energy and burn calories; and iodine is the catalyst that jump starts the metabolic processes.  The thyroid gland absorbs iodine, which is usually obtained by diet or supplementation, and subsequently releases the hormones that control metabolic function.    When diet and exercise efforts aren’t effective at controlling body weight, a sluggish thyroid may be to blame.  Adequate iodine levels are mandatory for ideal thyroid function and optimum metabolic output.  In turn, low iodine levels can lead to a condition known as hypothyroidism.    Kelp also supports improvement of several conditions often associated with excess fat.  It is a rich source of calcium and research published in the June 2011 issue of “Nutrition Reviews,” noted that increased calcium intake may promote “statistically significant weight loss in overweight and obese individuals.”    Extra body weight is also found in tandem, usually, with acidic pH levels in the body.  Furthermore, an  is a prime environment for sickness and disease.  Kelp contains a compound called alkali, which helps balance pH levels.    Loaded with antioxidants, kelp helps neutralize free radical damage; this added detoxification really encourages your entire body to be in balance. Cohesiveness throughout your system is going to be paramount for the best success with weight loss efforts.    Eating a healthy and balanced diet and participating in regular exercise is the best first step to losing weight and fat.  A diet rich in organic fruits, vegetables, seeds, and nuts provides the body with tremendously powerful, dense nutrients without the negative side effects associated with processed foods. Exercise is a fantastic way to burn stored energy (fat) and give your mind and metabolism a boost.  As part of a comprehensive approach– not just to weight loss, but your overall health — you should take inventory of how each system and process in your body is functioning.  In the case of deficiencies related to a slow thyroid, when caused by inadequate iodine levels, kelp may provide the stimulus necessary to kick a sluggish thyroid back into gear.  The easiest way to incorporate kelp into your diet is with supplements. Kelp supplements can be found both on their own and blended with other herbals. If weight loss is your goal, then I recommend , Global Healing Center’s al natural weight loss formula. A powerful blend of kelp thallus and other metabolism-boosting botanicals, Slimirex can add an extra boost to support a healthy diet and exercise plan.
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.How much kelp do you take a day to promote weight loss?Jamie – I just recently started taking Kelp to assist in my thyroid issues (i am on the high end of “normal,” but it is almost 3X higher than it was 2 years ago). A co-worker of mine recommended kelp supplements to me. She stated she took two (2) a day and lost 45 lbs in about 2 months naturally. I am starting with that. She told me something along the lines of 5 a day, but I would not do that until researching more thoroughly.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()I’ve been overweight all my life and tried so many things. Different things work for different people and I was lucky enough to find one that worked for me. I lost 25 pounds in one month without any exercise and it has been a life changer. I’m a little embarrased to post my before and after photos here but if anyone actually cares to hear what I’ve been doing then I’d be happy to help in any way. Just shoot me an email at  and I’ll show you my before and after photos, and tell you about how things are going for me with the stuff I’ve tried. I wish someone would have helped me out when I was struggling to find a solution so if I can help you then it would make my daycan children take kelp tabs?Pingback: ()Pingback: ()How did it go? Did the kelp work for weight-loss?