      When we think about healthy Halloween recipes, we normally think about something involving pumpkins, cookies or candy. As symbols of Halloween, these are true children’s favorites in every right. We can’t forget, however, that pizza is another children’s favorite that you can never go wrong with, any time of year.      This recipe for Incredible White Bean Pizza has been revised with all organic ingredients. This is a great way to get your children filled up with something truly healthy before they go out around the neighborhood collecting processed candy.Preheat oven to 425 degrees. Place beans, garlic, distilled water, and oregano into a blender. Blend and spread over the pizza crust. Dice tomatoes, chop basil, and add to mixture. Sprinkle mozzarella cheese across the top. Bake for 10-12 minutes until cheese begins to bubble.  You can decrease your children’s candy intake and still satisfy their sweet tooth by baking Pumpkin Cookies for them. This healthy Halloween recipe has also had its original ingredients modified to provide an all-organic holiday treat. Equally popular with adults, pumpkin cookies make great desserts for parties and excellent snacks to send to school during the first week of November.    Preheat oven to 350°F. Thoroughly mix the oil and honey in a bowl. Add eggs and beat into the mixture. Mix the gluten free flour, organic baking powder, organic baking soda, all spices, and the Himalayan salt. Add spices to the oil and honey mixture, and then add the pumpkin. With each addition, beat well until consistency is even. Add the walnuts, vanilla, and chocolate baking chips. Grease cookie sheets and add mixture by the teaspoonful. Bake for 10-12 minutes. This healthy Halloween recipe makes 60 cookies.    
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.