    Although many proteins are animal or dairy based, alternative, vegetable based sources of protein exist for those who follow vegetarian, vegan, or otherwise restricted diets.  Some of these include pea protein, hemp protein, and even strawberry protein. One of the best forms is a bio-fermented raw sprouted whole grain brown rice protein, which combines the sprouted endosperm and the bran. Brown rice protein has a number of positive qualities- it’s hypoallergenic, retains the natural fiber and bran that we need, and is an overall convenient source of protein.      Unlike red meat, brown rice protein is very lean and does not have a high fat content.  As a food source, it promotes lean body mass and may be an effective component of a weight loss or control regime in the sense that it does not promote fat storage.  It’s also important to note that protein takes a notable amount of energy to digest.  A diet high in protein will cause you to burn more calories just by processing it through your body.Brown rice protein promotes muscle recovery.  When you exercise your muscles, the exertion breaks them down.  Gains and growth happen later, when the muscle recovers.  That’s why protein supplementation is of high interest to athletes and other active people.  The amino acids in protein act like little building blocks and that help muscles recover and rebuild so that they become stronger than before.Brown rice protein helps to promote balanced blood sugar.  Eating food will cause the blood sugar to rise; some high glycemic index foods cause it to rise more than others.  Carbohydrates and simple sugars are the worst offenders and cause blood sugar to skyrocket. Brown rice protein is a  and actually helps to balance out the effect that carbohydrates have on blood sugar and insulin to keep you trim and healthy.It’s a fantastic protein source for anyone especially vegetarians and vegans. A lot of protein comes from animals, whether in the form of meat or dairy.  If you follow a vegetarian, vegan, or otherwise restricted diet, it’s always helpful to find creative ways to provide your body with what it needs. Brown rice protein is a great way to give your body the protein it needs while maintaining your dietary goals.It’s a great source of protein for those with allergies. Products like milk, soy, peanut butter, and eggs are all sources of protein but those are also foods where allergies are more likely to exist.  Brown rice protein provides a solution to this problem because it is hypo-allergenic, so anyone can eat it and reap the benefits.Although it might be viewed as something only for those following ultra specialized diets, the reality is that brown rice protein is a nutritious and healthy source of protein for anyone.  Even if you’re not a vegan or vegetarian, or don’t otherwise follow a restricted diet, brown rice protein is something to try, especially if you work out or participate in athletics.It’s available in a powder form and, generally speaking, is often void of chemicals and additives, especially when compared to some of the big name, mega-muscle protein powder concoctions out there.
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.What about the recent info about brown rice containing arsenic?  Is that a concern?  Thanks!— Kristy @ Wine LogicKristy,
thank you for your post!  This question has been asked allot, the brown rice in Sun Warrior protein is tested for heavy metals and receives a certificate of analysis.  It also meets the standards set in California of 10.0 Micro Grams or less per serving per day.   It is safe to consume in this regard.Is it a complete source of protein? Does is have any imbalances of amino acids? Thank you.I heard that Sunwarrior is not Organic 100 pourcent?  Can you comment on that? I know a beautiful protein call Nature-Zen.  This organic Vegan Protein has an assimilation at 98.2 pourcent and is concentrate at 90%, made with organic, bio-fermented, raw and sprouted brown rice.  I also would like to know where the Brown Rice come from?Sure, can you provide a link to that information?Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()does sprouted brown rice protein cause constipation?