As you’re likely aware, calcium is an absolutely essential mineral that helps support development of healthy teeth, bones, muscles, and much more. Calcium plays an integral role in the secretion of a number of hormones and enzymes that are vital for your body function efficiently. As such, it’s important to get adequate calcium; dietary is best but supplementation may also be necessary for many people. Research has repeatedly discovered relationships between calcium deficiency and serious illness such as osteoporosis. Getting enough calcium is a goal everyone needs to be consciously working to achieve.If you’re trying to adopt (or already have adopted) vegan or vegetarian dietary habits then you may be looking for alternatives to the dairy and meat products that are often mistakenly considered to be the only food sources of calcium available. We’re all aware that fresh organic fruits provide many beneficial nutrients but you may be surprised to learn that, for a number of fruits, calcium is one of those nutrients.Calcium is frequently associated with healthy skeletal health and that association is accurate. However, calcium is needed by the body for much more and calcium deficiency can cause more problems than weak bones and teeth.Research has established that a low dietary intake of calcium is a risk factor for developing high blood pressure. Conversely, increased dietary calcium intake has been shown to help lower blood pressure in persons with hypertension. Oddly enough, the Department of Chemical Pathology at Dumfries and Galloway District Hospital in the United Kingdom has published information that shows calcium deficiency to be a cause of rickets. Making conscious eating decisions is important if you’re going to meet your daily nutritional requirements, it won’t happen by accident. With this comes a thin line between routinely getting the nutrients you need, without it being too routine. If you’re eating the same thing every single day, you’re going to get bored. Here are ten delicious fruits you can alternate between are great sources of calcium, not to mention other nutrients!Loaded with 43 mg of the recommended 1,000 to 2,000 mg daily intake for the average person, oranges and tangerines also contain a powerful amount of vitamin C and that makes them an excellent choice.As if their delicious taste wasn’t enough, dried apricots contain 5mg of calcium in a 100g serving. A perfect choice for everyone, but especially hikers, bikers, and campers.This tropical fruit looks rejuvenating because it is. Kiwi provides 34 mg of calcium per 100g serving. To put that into perspective, a single cup contains 60 mg.Dates are a tasty treat and each date contains around 15 mg of calcium.Dried figs may be the best fruit source of calcium there is? At 241 mg of calcium per cup and 13 mg per each individual fig, on average, a small serving of dried figs can go a long way in achieving the goal of adequate calcium intake.A New York court decided in 1947 that rhubarb, then labeled a vegetable, could be considered a fruit. Despite the identity crisis, what’s solid is rhubarb as a calcium source, containing 348 mg of calcium in a single cup.An exotic treat, prickly pears, also known as red tunas, contain 58 mg of calcium per each pear.In addition to aiding the colon,  can offer up 75 mg of calcium in a single cup.Mulberries are not sold in many grocery stores and can be hard to find. It’s a shame too, they contain up to 55 mg calcium in 1 cup. If you can find them, try them, they’re great!Kumquats have a rich flavor, are high in vitamins A and C, and contain up to 12 mg of calcium. These little power pellets can be a great boost.Increasing your fruit and vegetable intake positively impacts your bone health by providing the essential micronutrients and antioxidants that promote healthy bone formation and good health. Develop a habit of enjoying the fruits on this list, organic when possible. Not only will you experience not only the benefits of calcium, but the other health perks that accompany a diet rich in fresh fruits as well.If you find your diet lacking in calcium, you can also try calcium supplements. I recommend Global Healing Center’s . While most calcium supplements are chalky and dusty, IntraCal is encapsulated in Kosher-certified vegetarian capsules to make swallowing easy. IntraCal contains a blend of calcium orotate and magnesium orotate. In IntraCal, the magnesium aids in the absorption of calcium to give you the most efficient calcium supplement available.
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.great!!!! how much of these fruits can be consumedINFORMATION SPECIALLY FOR THE OLD ,MIDDLE AGED SUFFER FROM CALCIUM DEFICIENCY,WOMAN AFTER MENOPAUSE MUST CONCENTRATE ON THIS ISSUE.THANK YOU FOR THE VALUABLE FACTS.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()So a person would have to consume 46 oranges in a day to get their recommended calcium intake. That seems like a lot.A person would have to eat all day to get their calcium, or they could take one calcium supplement instead.As much as you can eat.Pingback: ()None of the calcium in rhubarb is bioavailable due to the enormous amount of oxalates in it which binds with the calcium.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()