Lemon juice is an important component of a number of body cleansing regiments including the master cleanse and Global Healing Center’s own liver cleansing protocol.  Why? Lemon juice contains , which aids in both the production of digestive juices and the process of digestion. Lemon juice detox adds a dynamic element to colon cleansing. It can aid the bowels in daily elimination of toxins, and it can  and gas. Lemons are known as an “anionic food”, which means they contain a higher number of negative ions than positive ions. Anionic foods mirror anionic fluids such as stomach acid, saliva, and bile. As such, the work of lemons both parallels and enhances the work of digestive fluids.    It also helps with the daily elimination of toxins from the bowels, assists with gas and bloating, and contributes certain cleansing qualities which help the digestive tract. Lemon juice can help boost the nutrient levels in your colon.    Lemon juice detox is an excellent adjunct to . The natural cleansing qualities of lemon help reduce harmful bacteria. Juice from ½ organic, all-natural lemon can be mixed with purified water to help with liver cleansing, as well as respiratory problems, sore throats, and healthy skin. It helps the liver produce the necessary enzymes to maintain an alkaline condition in the body, and it has even been known to help with heartburn.    When mixed with organic lemon juice and olive oil, avocados can help the body rid itself of gallstones and has shown to help arthritis, atherosclerosis, diabetes and kidney stones.    Organic lemon juice has also been shown to help with kidney stones. One favorite  involves mixtures of a lemon juice, olive oil, and water, and another mixture of water, organic raw apple cider vinegar, and ½ an organic lemon.  The cleansing qualities of lemon juice make it ideal for helping with the flu. It helps purify the lymphatic system so your body is better able to defend itself. Adding black pepper and fresh ginger to lemon juice will also help alleviate excessive mucous.  Please keep in mind that while organic lemon juice can and does play a significant role in body cleansing regimens, it is not to be exclusively relied upon for detoxification. Rather, if you’re interested in cleansing your body, I recommend following one of our .  Each of these programs contains full nutritional and supplemental guidelines that incorporate the key components of lemon juice detox in the best way possible to help cleanse the colon, liver, and gallbladder.
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.Thank you, Larry this is great information.  I read it to Donna, she liked hearing the part about kinney stone because she has had a lot of problem with them.  Thank you for all you do Dr. Group, you are an Angel in disguise!!“Lemons are known as an “anionic food”, which means they contain a higher number of negative ions than positive ions.”
This concept is a joke: if it has more negative ions than positive ions, then the whole lemon would have a net negative charge, and hence have electricity – meaning if anyone touches it, they will get a static electric shock.  I hope this ‘anionic’ concept is not the whole basis for why Lemons are good for you (as compared to say oranges).What Dr.Group writes about lemons is true.Matonatomic doesn’t know what they are talking about.Drinking lemon water does help you.I went to the doctor because I was feeling bad and run down.I was having gas and just felt like a big mess.After 6 days on lemon water I started feeling better.This will clean your colon and I had a cough that was awful,coughing up all kinds of stuff.That has gone away.My chest is clear and I feel alot better.You will not believe what will come out of you.Please try this.What do you have to lose? I thought it would not help,but it really does.I drink a bottle of 16.9 oz.of water with 4 teaspoons of fresh lemon in it every day.I’m going on 2 weeks of this and feel alot better.So give it a try.The worse part is squeezing the lemons,but it’s worth it !!!!Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Matonatomic is correct in saying that “Lemons are known as an anionic food…” is incorrect. If lemons are anionic, then according to basic chemistry, they should be acids. However, it is common knowledge that lemons (citric acid) are mostly acidic in quality. Jayhawks, perhaps yes, lemons did help you; however, Matonatomic was pointing out that it is most likely that the writer may have gotten confused about anionic and cationic. Some of the best scientists make that mistake all the time.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()I would love to see a controlled study that truly show organ detox efficacy results..  At this point in time I say it’s all bs until proven otherwise..Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()