Modern society is a sad state that produces many over-processed livers. When we overeat or eat processed or fried foods, or anytime we are exposed to environmental pollutants or stress, the liver becomes overworked and overloaded. When the liver is taxed, it can’t process toxins and fat in an efficient way. There are many foods that can help cleanse the liver naturally by stimulating its natural ability to expel toxic waste from the body.In the past, I have discussed my favorite cleansing foods. The list in this article is a little more specific and focuses mainly on foods that can help cleanse your liver. All it takes is a few simple steps to promote normal liver health. In addition to taking a , and performing at least two  per year, eating the following foods is the best way to keep your liver healthy and functioning. I encourage you to incorporate these liver cleanse foods into your diet.14 Foods That Cleanse the LiverLength: 1 minuteJust a small amount of this pungent white bulb has the ability to activate liver enzymes that help your body flush out toxins.  and selenium, two natural compounds that aid in liver cleansing.High in both vitamin C and antioxidants, citrus fruits like grapefruit, oranges, limes, and lemons support the natural cleansing abilities of the liver. Have a small glass of freshly-squeezed grapefruit juice to boost production of the liver detoxification enzymes that help flush out carcinogens and other toxins.Both are extremely high in plant-flavonoids and beta-carotene; eating  and carrots can stimulate and support overall liver function.This liver-loving beverage is full of plant-based antioxidants known as catechins—compounds known to assist liver function. Green tea is a delicious, healthy addition to any diet. Just remember that green tea offers the benefits, not green tea . Some research suggests green tea extract may actually have a negative effect on liver health. Keep it simple and stick to the beverage to enjoy the .One of our most powerful allies in cleansing the liver, leafy greens can be eaten raw, cooked, or juiced. Extremely high in chlorophyll, greens soak up environmental toxins from the blood stream. With their distinct ability to , chemicals, and pesticides, these cleansing foods offer a powerful protective mechanism for the liver.Incorporate leafy greens such as bitter gourd, arugula,  greens, spinach, mustard greens, and chicory into your diet. This will increase creation and flow of bile—the substance that removes waste from the organs and blood.This nutrient-dense superfood helps the body produce glutathione, a compound that is necessary for the liver to cleanse harmful toxins.High in pectin, apples hold the chemical constituents necessary for the body to cleanse and release toxins from the digestive tract. This, in turn, makes it easier for the liver to handle the toxic load during the cleansing process.Cold-pressed organic oils such as olive, hemp, and flaxseed are great for the liver when used in moderation. They help the body by providing a lipid base that can absorb harmful toxins in the body. In this way, they take some of the burden off the liver.If your diet includes wheat, flour, or other standard grains, it’s time to make changes. And alternative grains like , , and buckwheat can help. Your liver is your body’s filter for toxins, and if you have certain sensitivities, grains that contain gluten only add to them. One study found that persons who experienced sensitivity to gluten also experienced abnormal liver enzyme test results.Broccoli and cauliflower are good sources of glucosinolate, which supports enzyme production in the liver. These natural enzymes flush carcinogens and other toxins from the body, and may significantly lower risks associated with cancer.These citrus fruits are high in vitamin C, which aids the body in synthesizing toxic materials into substances that can be absorbed by water. Drinking freshly-squeezed lemon or lime juice in the morning can stimulate the liver.High in the amino acid arginine, walnuts support the liver in detoxifying ammonia.  Walnuts are also high in glutathione and , which support normal liver cleansing. Make sure you chew the nuts until they are liquefied before swallowing.Much like broccoli and cauliflower, eating cabbage stimulates liver detoxifying enzymes that help flush out toxins. Kimchi, coleslaw, cabbage soup, and sauerkraut are great cabbage-foods to add to your diet.Turmeric is the liver’s favorite spice. Try adding some of this detoxifying goodness into your next lentil stew or veggie dish for an instant liver pick-me-up.  helps boost liver detoxification by assisting enzymes that actively flush out dietary toxins.This golden spice tastes great in all kinds of dishes, but you can further boost your intake with a turmeric supplement. A word of warning; turmeric supplements are somewhat notorious for low-quality ingredients and even outright dangerous contamination. Only buy the highest quality turmeric from the most reputable sources. I encourage you to try Global Healing Center’s own . This premium liquid supplement contains potent antioxidants and is sourced only from organic  root.Other liver cleanse foods not listed above include artichoke, asparagus, kale, and Brussels sprouts. Eating the foods listed above is a great way to help keep your liver functioning properly. However, for best results, I recommend performing a . Performing a liver cleanse at least twice a year will eliminate any foreign substances that may be trapped in your liver.
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.Excellent Dr. Group. Thank you!Can’t say that I agree with number 9. Grains wreak havok on the body, reducing the body’s ability to process vitamin D . They cause injury to gastrointestinal tract . I know you tout the B-vitamins in grains, however, grains also contain phyates, which in fact reduce absorption of minerals in humans. There are plenty of dietary choices in which you can receive B-vitamins, without the harmful physiological effects of grain consumption.What about coffee?  There are a lot of studies that say coffee is good for the liver and gall bladder (among other things).  Or is that just hype?  If so, how do you determine if it is hype and the ones you did list are not?Thank you !!!! This is a big eye opener . For so long all of us always try to look for the best way to keep our bodies healthier but so many companies only offer their products but never on the wedsite they tell  you any real info or advice for healthy matters.
But Dr Group is really clear and specific with issues and solutions about body cleansing facts  and advices !!! Thank you again for been a big help in our health !!!Good starter info, although there are many, more vegetables and fruits that help cleanse the system overall. Anything you put in your body, and if you consume that particular food will eventually effect every single cell of your body, keeping a slightly alkalized pH balance will cleanse the body naturally. Most of the foods listed above will help alkalize the body’s pH level except most teas.Thanks for the great info. I am heading to whole foods now to pick up what I need to start my first liver cleanse.Coffee is good but as an enema only. Coffee enemas with organic coffee.Question, what do you recommend eating in place of whole wheat bread?Great article !  I especially like the avocados, with the mention of the nutirent glutathione, to clease out the harmful toxins.I have been doing some research on Turmeric and I was happy to see that you gave a good discription of what Turmeric does in your body. It has many amazing properties and it is an ingredient in our product both my husband and I take daily. It is Protandim and it consists of 5 herbs and turns your genes on to clean up your body.Besides all the above foods, I have discovered that ‘Goji Berries’ are also pretty good for blood/liver.  They have very high antioxidant levels, more than apples & oranges. Also they contain some key amino-acids beneficial for the body.So, google for ‘goji berry’ for more info. You shall find out. 🙂some kind of multi-grain, multi-seed, or sprouted grains bread would do the job just fine. 🙂I want to know drinking plain soda water regularly is harmful or notI just want to say Thanks. I just wanted to know what food works and here they are. I wish I could find a list of food’s not to eat with out hearing a promising lengthy video that turns out to be a sales pitch. LOL
I will add an amazing discovery. I found I can turn on my tread mill AND my TV at the same time. An easy hour long walk is saving my life.
Good luck to everyone on their journey to better health.
Gerry.soda water is not good for your bones over the long hall: avoid carbonated beverages. Edgar Cayce said they were poison.A Chinese doctor told me that I needed to cleanse my liver yesterday. I already knew I had to. Although other docs at free clinics tell me my liver is working properly another told me about lesions on my liver and I was an alcoholic for many years and started getting boils and edema. I know my liver is overloaded and needs a fresh start. I want to cleanse but its great to have a list of foods that can help keep it clean. I will try it all and also take milk thistle. I also don’t think grains are all that good for people or for liver function. I’ll use them sparingly in regards to my liver. Sugar is my cross to bear. Lol. Thanks for this post.Besides all the above foods, I have discovered that many other fruits are also good for the liver. For quick results, I have had the best luck with all natural, liquid liver cleanse supplements.  Thanks for this great article.When doing a liver cleanse do you really need to do the coffee enema and is that safe to do at home or are there any clinics willing to do a liver cleanse safely for you instead xthanks for such an informative pageHi,
I am a 37 yr old female who has had my gallbladder removed a few years ago. Could you please give me some advice on ways I can detox and get my liver healthy. I have been on strong painkillers recently for a operationand I suffer with migraines. I am determined to do whatever it takes to get healthy as always thought I could eat what I wanted without effect until I find myself in the toilet paying the price. Any help would greatly be appreciated.
Valerieuse milk thistle liver cleanser
detoxify and support  from nature’s secret.
I use this myself, it works, you will actually feel better just after a couple of weeks, take one or two a day. order it online.Great article!  Thanks for all the healthy tips ! 🙂If you’re in that rough of shape, you need to see a physician.  For advanced liver disease, supplements can sometimes do more harm than good.  You may need some more heavy-duty help with medications.  At least get your liver function tested for peace of mind.Can you provide any scientific proof regarding your statement that “These natural enzymes… significantly lowers our risk of cancer”?ThanksI read an article about a Fatty Liver, it described me to a T! I was exhausted, and falling asleep at work, I couldn’t remember anything, my muscles ached, I had allergies, I couldn’t loos weight for anything (60+ lbs overweight)..
I was just a mess. I have been a vegetarian for over a year and couldn’t understand why I was such a mess until I read this article and decided to modify my diet.  I start my day with 1oz aloe leaf juice and honey, then 30 min later I drink a tea made with milk thistle, basil, turmeric, wheat grass & dandelion. It tastes awful so I only have 1 oz 3x a day. Then later I enjoy cabbage soup, and some fresh juiced green apple juice & lots of water . In the afternoon I snack on raw cabbage leaves at my desk and celery. For dinner I might eat tomatoes from our garden and red onions or something green and fresh.  I am 7 days into my cleanse and my face feels amazing, so soft. My muscles feel better not stiff anymore, my allergy symptoms are almost 90% gone, I can focus better and normally I would want a nap by now but I feel like going outside to paint the deck! Now I feel like I can work in the garden for some exercise maybe now I’ll start loosing some weight! I’m going to stick to the foods that cleanse the liver, no more carbs for me. Now that I think I know what’s wrong with me I feel free!!! Woo Hoo!!!I feel it should have been added that grapefruits are best not eaten by women. as some studies have found it slows down the production of the CYP3A4 enzyme, thus increasing estrogen production and increasing the chance of breastcancer.Want science “doc” – read the JAMA June 2000 – it says that doctors (and their science) are the #3 leading cause of death in the USA.  Imagine if all their venues where doctors “practiced”  their brand of science were considered – no doubt doctors are the #1 leading cause of death in the USA.  Go Science.  As for me, I prefer to go God-made foods and supplements derived from God-made plants – I’m pretty sure God knew what he was doing when he created foods – they have tons of healing properties – each one of them – and were created to be synergistic with humans and health – unlike science – chemicals made in the lab to suppress symptoms rather than help the body heal.  Take a look at the stats since modern medicine started using their “science” on people about 150 years ago – there’s more obesity, more cancer, more autism, more heart disease, more drug-resistant bacteria, etc.  NICE SCIENCE DOC – keep up the horrible science of disease care –  it works quite nicely for one group of people only – those that perpetuate it and profit from it.  As for me, I use my brain and common sense and eat organic food and take supplements accordingly.  I stay the heck away from doctors as I want to live as long as I can as healthily as I can and science has proven that to do that one needs to RUN AS FAST AS THEY CAN AWAY from the medical establishment and their brand of “SCIENCE.”  Stick with God-made stuff, no science needed, it’s a given…  If you have a brain.The study you are referring was in an email chain letter and was a real study that involved 36,000 women who ate grapefruit every other day.  It has since been thrown out as invalid, did you not get a follow-up email on that?  lol, probably not.  A more recent study, which followed more than 77,000 women over the course of many years, found no rise in breast cancer related to either grapefruit or grapefruit juice.Experts at the American Cancer Society said that there was insufficient evidence to raise alarm, but that women with concerns could cut back on grapefruit.If you’ve already abused your body for years and have signs of elevated insulin levels as a result (such as obesity, high blood pressure, or high cholesterol), then you would want to limit your fruit intake as a whole including grapefruit.      Preventing cancer cannot possibly be as simple as “cutting back on grapefruit” or doing any other ONE thing. It has to be a multi-level approach that involves shifting your lifestyle to one that promotes your self-healing abilities.Don’t be so sure. It can get you killed.
The CYP3A4 system works on the estrogen levels, increases it. That is considered a fact in most of the medical world. Start thinking from there.“Preventing cancer cannot possibly be as simple as “cutting back on grapefruit” ” That’s not what my response suggests. And btw: lol? Really?The medical world has a horrible track record – hello.  Why would anybody believe them?!  Doctors and their brand of science kill more people than cancer and heart disease does every year.  The medical system is imploding on itself as we speak… due to their failures and fraud science.  Grapefruit, when eaten in its whole, fresh form, actually contains many beneficial bioflavanoids and nutrients. For instance, grapefruit contains:* Enzymes that impact the way your body deals with sugar making it less likely to be laid down as fat. This may be helpful in preventing obesity and diabetes. * The flavonoid naringin, which is metabolized into naringenin, an antioxidant reported to help lower cholesterol levels and fight hepatitis C. * Lots of vitamin C, which promotes healing, lessens damage caused by free radical molecules, and may help reduce gum disease. * Lycopene, a carotenoid phytonutrient that is known to reduce your risk of prostate cancer. * Compounds that boost the activity of liver detoxification enzymes, which help to clear cancer-causing toxins from your body.Be afraid of Grapefruit?  Really?  As I stated, the only reason to stay away from grapefruit would be if you have symptoms that you’ve already abused your body and would need to stay away from all sugars, fruit sugars included.  Other than that – GRAPEFRUIT ROCKS!  PS:  It’s true – preventing breast cancer is not about avoiding grapefruit – duh!  What I said is totally relevant and besides I can say whatever I want in my reply.I love your knowledge and the unabashed way in which you express it.  Very well written!!!  Also, I wanted to make a suggestion, there is a very good documentary that was put together by Foster Gamble (from the Family of the well known Proctor & Gamble).  He and his wife did 10 years of research and it mentions what you stated within the documentary, and a whole bunch more.  it’s called; “Thrive”….The Planet is waking up.  It is fantastic, and I’ve done my own research for about 5 years, and this documentary encompasses all the issues in one movie.  Really excellent.  In it he mentions how Doctors have about one hour of nutrition.  It is a laughable, yet sad thing.  We are what we eat, and anyone who wants to demonize a grapefruit may also believe that a big mac is going to help them detox.  I loved your responses.  Way to go!!!!Hi All.  I have been reading Dr Tim Noakes book “Challenging Beliefs” and he is hugely critical of the “Science” we have had drummed into us since the 1950 and even before.  He says “follow the money trail” and you will see why we are being fed such utter rubbish.  The dietary companies “looking after us” are sponsored by Coca Cola, Keloggs etc. As he says “the single greatest change in dietary patterns over the past 150 years is not that humans are eatingh more calories or more fat calories – it is that we are eating ten times as much sugar as did our great-great-grandparents, few of who suffered from obesity, diabetes, hypertension and heart disease”.  We eat too much sugar and to too many refined carbohydrates!!Where the hell is milk thistle?! The reason it says to avoid bleached flours is due to a toxic halogen called bromine present.I had a doctor give me a injection in my nerve that my migraine always pumped from and since that day i cry with joy never a headache again “intractable migraine with aura” I was on 90mg a day of oxycodone and thats no way to live unless your dyingspeechless! It sounded as if you at least had a bit of a handle on some good nutritional facts until you whip out your imaginary friend as rationale to bash doctors.  No wonder you need to be angry at someone. You have been brainwashed to believe crap all your life! go watch Fox news and save the rest of humanity your fundy opinionsWow! I am tired after reading the 14 foods! and blogCan some non profit please simply publish an alphabetic database
listing all foods along with any known good and bad effects?????I took the liver and gallbladder health test and I got “Medium health risk” but I’m only a tween. Does the diagnosis still apply to me?-___- You’re an idiot, the FOX news channel is full of lies and propaganda.Dr. Group,
I was diagnosed as diabetic 11 years ago and didn’t really know what to do about it. For the last 1.5 years I’ve been on an alkaline diet and stop taking my Glipizide pills of 5mg twice a day.
I use grapefruit with cinnamon, lemon, 2grams of Vit C and apple cider vinegar with water first thing in the morning to help cut down my blood sugar levels. My eye site has never been better since I wear glasses and I am energized after my breakfast of Quinao, fruit and Hemp Granola. I don’t get the loss of energy and I watch my PH. I also eat a half a grape fruit by itself 3 times a week.  I appreciate your site as the information is insightful. Thanks, Davidprovide some examples please.stupid kids…..Fantastic response. And so true. It’s not health care it’s sick care – more people need to wake up and stop depending on people who are on the payroll of pharmaceutical companies. Why do so many people put so much faith in a bunch of textbook taught pill pushers? Why dont we all wake up and listen to the healing potential in our bodies and our inner voice that tells us inherently what we need to do to reverse sickness? Amazing. Wake up, world.Hi Im Ghenz 19 years old from philippines i just wanna ask if you can help me guys in my health problem in my liver because my liver has been deep cut (laceration) into to its IVA part and also my gallbladder has been damaged .. how can it be cured thx ..love the wise man Edgar Caycelolthanks very usfull msgthat’s amazing, but also sounds so gross. don’t think I could handle that much healthiness in my diet. 😛anyone please help  i need a eating plan
i am daibetic and am over weight and lost m galbladderI drink maybe 3-5 times a year pretty heavily. Just at party’s but never do I casually drink. When I drink, I DRINK! Would something like this help my liver? I also never really eat fast food or greasy foods and I am mostly a vegetarian. Would a liver cleanse help heal my liver or reverse the effects?Josh,
Thank you for your post!  The liver and gallbladder are never 100% clean since their intended function is to metabolize harmful and potentially toxic material.  While these foods can help clean the liver, there are years of build up and most people will require a minimum of 3 cleansing sessions followed by periodic  once or twice per year for maintenance.If you find that you have any questions please feel free to contact the  and we will be more than happy to help you.Take care and have a great holiday weekend! So I got to the bit where you refer to Selenium as a natural compound (as opposed to an element) and thought,  should I bother taking note of this person’s opinionDid u loose some weight also during all this stuff?How does one do a liver cleanse? Would I start by eating the foods that detox the liver first.. then is there some plan to go on, or is coffee enemas the way to “go” excuse the pun.. Just came out that way.. oh NO there I go again.. sorry.. but seriously.I was looking for the certified organic symbol? on the Liver Cleanse drops..
don’t see itgood article. But what about artchokes? Also, It would not hurt to mention smoke and alchol, too, as factors that make the liver overworked and overloaded.The primary way in which your body expels toxins is via the liver, which detoxifies and cleanses your body by continuously. Think of your liver like your own personal filtering system: Suck in the bad and spit out the good.Hello…I’ve been taking spirulina for a little over a month now…and as an acne sufferer with mild rosacea, it has helped immensely unlike any other natural “remedies” I’ve tried…For about a month I was taking 3 grams a day and didn’t have any problems…But I went off of it because I ran out for a couple of days and I broke out a bit with some cysts, so when I got some more tablets, I upped the dosage…It’s only been a couple of days since taking a lot more,..up to around 12 grams, however, I’ve noticed my face is really red and feels tight and my skin has been itching…I read that spirulina could possibly cause liver toxicity because of the vitamin A and I’ve been taking more than the recommended dosage…And that these symptoms of mine are some of the possible side effects of taking too much spirulina…Sorry for the long post, but I intend on not taking it for a few days to clear it from my system and then start back on a lower dose…How many days do you recommend would be good and what can I drink or eat in order to speed up the detoxification process, so that my skin returns to its normal state?…Thank you.I am a coumadin patient. I would like to detox natural..any suggestions on what I can and can’t use.The primary way in which your body expels toxins is via the liver, which detoxifies and cleanses your body by continuously.Healthy Grocery List for Liver Lovers | Liver DoctorI am so upset I have been eating healthy and exercising for over a year lost weight brought my good colestral up and my doc. has put me on cholesterol meds.  The bottle says not to eat grapefruit, will any of these other vegies hurt with taking cholesterol medication?Take pines wheat grass tablets, they cured my digestion in under 3 days.Joni,
Thank you for your post!  It would be difficult to know how any of these foods would react with your medications, it may be wise to speak with your physician in order to better determine what is safe for you.  You may also consider working with a reputable Naturopath to help you with this concern as well.Thank you for your post, take care and be well! Good day,my name is Shellane, i am 24 and i found out nearly 2 yrs ago that i have a liver problem, i found out doing a medical while applying to work on the cruise ship and because of this liver problem i cant get to work overseas. I dnt understand much about this but it has something to do with ALT and AST readings, i dont even know if i have ever felt any pain occuring from my liver so i just dnt know what to say or do, or even what to explain to a doctor about this, if there’s anyway you can help me get back my correct ALT and AST readings, please do not hesitate to contact. Thanks.Tumeric is definitely one of the best spices there is.  Did you know that it even boasts of amazing anti aging properties too? Plus, it really does give your food that zesty kinda kick that tastes oh so good.  I just love the stuff!I’ve currently been undergoing something like this. I stopped eating rice any processed form of carbs and replaced them with wheat and grain. I drink 3 cups of tea throughout the day along with atleast 1 apple. I’ve never felt better!Kristen, could you please tell me more about the tea you mentioned? Did you use a juicer to make it? Thanks a lot.WHAT IS MILK THISTLE AND ANY SPECIAL TURMERICTumeric may actually lead to liver dysfunction as in my case. I have been taking 450mg of tumeric for its anti inflammatory properties, but now think it MAY be the cause of my really high blood pressure. After blood tests, et al, that are all clear except for an increase in bilirubin. The only new item in my diet has been tumeric. I would really love your feedback as I am very anxious to get to the bottom of my health issue.Try some hemp bread!I can’t have grapefruit because i am on Lipitor.  I love grapefruit, what else can I do that will cleanse my liverEzekiel Bread or Essene Bread (Manna Bread) you will find in freezer section of health food isle.I try to eat a majority of these foods on a regular basis.  I’ve heard that dandelion tea is a good detox but haven’t been able to find it in any local health food store.  Does the tea  have any advantages over eating the vegetables?Thank You for the article and links. I suffer from Severe Chronic COPPER Toxicity.  Went to over 100 “doctors” for my skin issues and other health ailments..over 7 yrs….. all told me i was crazy….lol…..One Doctor looked at me and said i had some kind of heavy metal poisoning… Copper ….. I had copper water pipes…got rid of them….. Suffering severe health issues. COPPER IS BAD FOR THE HUMAN BODY!!!!! must clean liver and kidneys ..as I am overflowing with COPPER 🙁My skin problems were COPPER too much is really bad for us.. skin ailment was first symptom….. eliminated all copper water pipes… COPPER TOXICITY is the most Underdiagnosed ailment.just a suggestion… have your blood COPPER level checked!..for over 7 years i was sick… One doctor finally found my problem COPPER TOXICITY….. a simple blood test can determine this issue as it is the most UNDERdiagnosed medical conditions:(I would like to say to all these people speaking so harshly about herb docs and medical docs as well. Recently we found out my uncle had cirrhosis he also is a diabetic type 2 suffers from iron deficiency anemia and is on oxygen. Doctors have placed him on 2 diuretics iron pills a gout pill and a pill for his heart. So I have spent many hours researching and cross referencing liver detox and foods he needs without affecting his meds. Twice i have made a herbal tea of artichoke hearts drinking the boiled water from them even adding half c. of pure honey and half c. fresh squeezed lemon. the first time he drank this tea he had to see his doctor 2 days later he went from having 3 1/2 liters of fluid drawn from lungs and abdominal area to only 1 1/2 liter off his lungs only then a month later i have brewed this again and its same result cured the costipation he is energized like great attitude. As 1 post i read the usda are the ones killing us but this is a billion dollar industry so why would they treat the CAUSE no they treat the symptoms. Our health is determined on our diet and honestly if you have any religion the Bible defines specifically what we should and should not eat to live a healthy and vibrant life but it also clarifies that sometimes we do need the care of these Physicians. Be wise Knowledge is your power do not read a few websites and think you have the plan research cross refernce how everything interacts with each other and especially your illness and bodies. Follow the Bibles list of nutrition and you shall live a healthy life BUT remember it takes time to rebuild what you have torn down so Do Not Give Up!!!!!!!What a great list of food that is good for the liver. Was searching for some food that can benefit liver especially for friends who are working late hours and drink regularly.hello my name is Robin I normally like veggies, and fruit,, more veggies, and due to lack of money, work, home, have had to eat others food for  three and one half yrs.. my issue is swelling around thighs, and my right knee especially, some times very stiff, and loss of function… leg can grow in as much as 3 times its normal size… any suggestions…Robin Neeleynothing wrong with keeping clean; eat right and you will live rightEducate, share this Page with those supplying your food. If they are not open, do your best to not eat simple carbs, eat no sugar and processed foods. Ask for what you need in healthy food from anyone who can and will give you support. You will feel better.was worried when I heard some over the counter meds are harmful to the liver HOWEVER after reading this list I feel so much better.  I eat just about everything on this list daily.I had a lot of acne problems for years. In my early teens to adulthood and I am now 36years old. Did not find out until $$$ down the drain that I met this old doctor who told me to do a liver cleanse for seven days…1) No coffee, No Caffeine, No Chocolate, No Hot peppers, No Curry, No Red meat, No Soda, No Sweets such as ice creams or cake. 2) Each morning drink a 8oz glass of hot water with fresh squeezed lemon, maple syrp B and a dash of cayenne pepper. Eat green leafy veges, soups, salads, beets, carrots throughout the days… every 2 hours. Drink 6-8 bottles of water a day. and 2 X a day drink water and milk thistle. Now, after hundreds of $$$… all it took was a good liver cleanse and now I am acne free…. SAD that it took so long.. because there are so many products out there. That’s why Asian people has beautiful skin and hair, because they believe in cleansing the liver and always eating liver cleansing food…Mike Thistle is a herb that you can purchase a health food store. A few drops into your water when drinking. MT is know to target the liver and help with liver function. Turmeric is a blood cleansing herd used in the Middle East for Centuries. It’s know to cleanse the skin. In the middle east women grate raw turmeric and apply it all over their bodies just before marriage to have a clear complexion. Your skin stays yellow for a few days, however if cleanses your skin… You can find this as well in liquid form or tea at your health food store…I bought fresh ones from a local Caribbean store in Florida.Protandim is the greatest natural herbal supplyment. Its been on 20/20 night show the Today show. Call I can let you talk to women that are my friends that can explain how this product will change your life.   361 -746-1877 Milk Thistle works wonders for liver problemsJoni, if your good cholesterol is up then your doctor should not have put you on meds.  It’s important to know the ratios. It sounds like you need a second opinion and perhaps a new doc. Cholesterol meds are a very hard on the body. It is far better to bring cholesterol levels to “normal” range naturally.  There are many ways to do it through diet.  The major contributor to cholesterol is sugar and carbohydrates. NOT fat.  Good FATS control blood sugar, reduce insulin response and brings down cholesterol. Get another opinion and drop your doc.I started my 2013 with a healthy lifestyle. Acceptance
and getting in fit. And so I did Detoxification. From my hectic schedule,polluted environment, overloaded work, Unhealthy eating habits my body starts to worn out and my immune system seems like falling into pieces. My friend (living at New York) introduce me this great way of Detoxifying lifebotanica Detox Complete Night and Day . It consist with special Herbs that have been used for centuries to cleanse, purify, soothe and support various body organs
and systems include: Milk Thistle, Dandelion Root, Cascara Sagrada, Echinacea, Yellow Dock, Mexican Sarsaparilla Root, Burdock Root, Golden Seal, Cleavers Herb, Rose Hips, Carrot Oil, Aloe Vera, Slippery Elm, Nettle, Couch Grass, and Ginger Root. com for more Info. It works well with me and I’m sure it
will with you too.the benefit’s that matters”.While there are many supplements that may help, you must deal with the root cause of these concerns.  In order to do this I would suggest considering a complete cleanse of the system to gain a better balance of the body internally.  Once the body is cleansed many find that they are able to over come most negative health issues, and at that point can consider supplements to continue to support the bodies internal balance and good health.  A healthy diet and lifestyle is also suggest for optimal resultWhen you sprout grains, you not only increase their energy and nutrient content, but they are no longer grains — they become vegetables. Even people with gluten intolerance can eat sprouted grains as vegetables, and they can be cooked, as well. Add them to salads and soups, casseroles, cook and eat them for breakfast, make bread and muffins with them — make up recipes using your favorite sprouted grains. I’m looking to change my diet to help heal and cleanse my liver and lose weight, and find that I’m craving just about everything on the list in this article. Thanks for explaining my cravings, Dr. Group! This is great confirmation that listening to our bodies can provide most or all of the information we need.Thanks .
Lemon+honey+pepper will works 🙂is this effective to loose weights also??it aint workin for you buddyHave you been checked for autoimmune hepatitis and primary biliary cirrhosis?Treatment for the autoimmune hepatitis  is usually Prednisolone steroids to reduce liver inflammation as well as azathioprine which is an immune suppressant that reduces the amount of antibodies that attack the liver and bile ducts. Treatment for the biliary cirrhosis is a medication/supplement called ursodixychloric acid (URSO).I would ask  your doctor if you could have liver biopsy to check for both these autoimmune liver conditions.I took milk thistle on a daily basis. I could not understand why I had these white bumps on my forearms and was itchy. Went to a dermatologist and in conversation about what vitamins I was taking I mentioned milk thistle. She told me to get off of it and sure enough all is back to normal. Be careful some people like me (I am allergic to nothing that I knew of) was sensitive to this for some reason.I like they way you bash science yet refer to studies, insulin and enzymes. I think common sense would ask us to use the information and correct facts we have discovered through nutritional science, while wading through all the bullsh*t from “Big Pharma” and look for these helpful nutrients, vitamins etc from natural sources.  Also Teri, just a side note, the moment you mention “God” in your rant, you immediately lost all credibility. “I’m pretty sure God knew what he was doing” shouldn’t even be a concept you are willing to admit, let alone write on a public forum for anyone to see. How can a human being “know” what “their creator” was thinking? THINKING isn’t even a correct term. I bet you still think there is a wizard sitting in the clouds, sending lightning bolts to earth and things just appear.  How can you assign a gender to an omniscient being?
Teri I think you have a good idea, to skip over “medicines” from doctors and go with natural sources like foods, herbs, minerals etc.  But don’t bash doctors. If you have a heart attack or get hit by a car you will be grateful for doctors.Hi, For a change try to fast from dawn to dust.Piss off…Muslim scumthere is a herb called (break stone) it disolves kidney and liver stones and cleanes your organs . google it and research it.get it in liquid form.how do we know if our liver is cleaned?Is it medically useful and not harming to fast only on water one day? Question to the specialists and doctors)Love your liveryou might want to check into a gluten allergy that is what i have and you sound a lot like i did.Any suggestions for forehead acne? I have juiced greens and flushed my body for 3 days and my skin was clear for a month or 2 then it all came back and i’m struggling with it again.Isn’t cooking foods in aluminum foil  (or lining a pan with it to cook something) harmful? I still see many recipes which call for this.I love my evening cocktails, but i’m afraid of hurting my liver over time…(i’m female, 56 )    will eating to repair my liver counteract the drinking?I believe that should be from dawn to dusk.I love “Good Bye Gluten” multi-grain bread!  Call around to your local supermarkets to see who carries it.  It’s sold fresh, and keeps very well in or out of the fridge.  Best Wheat-free bread I have found.Hey, Joysy. There are many liver cleanse programs out there, but I recommend using an all organic product such as Livatrex and following the liver cleanse instructions which you can find here: Thanks a lot for the great question and apologies for getting back to you so late, we have recently updated our comment system and I will be much more active in the future here, so please feel free to always leave any questions or feedback here. You can also always contact our health specialists for anything else you may need in regards to your health, questions, and answers as well at 1-800-476-0016. Thanks again,Dr. Edward Group, DC, NDMaybe he meant you should starve(fast) yourself to death(dust). just kidding. Fasting most certainly has it’s merits.Try quinoa!Milk thistle is great, check out this info!Absolutely correct, Daniel. Check out our complete colon cleanse instructions-Good info, Shawna! Thanks for sharing. Copper toxicity is nothing to mess around with. Check out this article on the dangers of copper--Dr. Edward GroupGood point, Stacey, gluten sensitivities can cause a lot of puzzling problems. I wrote a few articles on gluten, check out this one--Dr. Edward GroupHi Rosaline,That’s weird, . Are you still having the same issues?-Dr. Edward GroupTurmeric is great!  if anyone else is interested in taking a look.
-Dr. Edward GroupHi Valerie! Thanks for reaching out. I’m sorry to hear about what you’re going through. It sounds like your body has been through a lot. Do not stop taking anything your doctors have prescribed without first discussing with them, but I would also suggest a full body cleansing routine to help you get back to zero. We have a  package that contains everything you need to perform a colon cleanse and a liver cleanse. Please let me know how it works for you!-Dr. Edward GroupThanks, Theresa for reading!
-Dr. Edward GroupBetter to avoid it, Vela!  I wrote concerning the dangers of aluminum.-Dr. Edward GroupDid you continue to live a healthy and low-toxin lifestyle after juicing and flushing? Cleansing your body is a great start, but it’s necessary to implement healthy eating and consumption habits afterward for the long haul.-Dr. Edward GroupMost healthy people do not have a medical problem with a one day water fast, outside of being hungry. Sometimes its not the best idea for older or infirm folks.That’s great, Anna!
-Dr. Edward GroupThanks for the support and for sharing, Shannon!-Dr. Edward Group, it’s crazy the effect it can have. How is your health after getting rid of the source?-Dr. Edward GroupIt’s probably just going to be more palatable with a lot of people. . Some people even enjoy eating the green leaves.-Dr. Edward Group-Dr. Edward GroupTurmeric may be the only new item but what about the old items? Are there any GMO or non-organic items in your diet that have taken a spot at the table and overstayed their welcome?-Dr. Edward GroupI’d suggest  but you should also talk to your prescribing doctor.-Dr. Edward GroupIt’d be a long list to compile everything but you’re absolutely correct, Daniel! Smoking and drinking are two way too common habits that negatively affect the body, especially the liver!-Dr. Edward GroupThanks for noticing, Joysy. Most of the ingredients are certified organic but a few are wildcrafted. They are not certified organic but are as close as possible.-Dr. Edward GroupHesmari, I’d recommend checking out my  immediately!!-Dr. Edward GroupHi Ghenz, if your liver has experienced physical trauma, you may have to have it surgically repaired. Have you been to the hospital for this?-Dr. Edward GroupCouldn’t agree more, -Dr. Edward GroupOoh, you forgot a special fruit, very special for liver, that is ?????? Pomegranate. Try to eat one pomegranate per day in the morning. You will not only feel a change in your liver function but will also see a reasonable increase in your hemoglobin level. Must try it.Correctamundo! Pomegranates are awesome!MSNBC is not? Or is it ok because they spew YOUR beliefs?I love grapefruit, but take a low dose statin drug, and grapefruit promotes the buildup of that in the system, so you have to be careful.Why did you just inject FOX and politics into a non-political subject? Last I saw FOX regularly has doctors on the network, as do most networks, yet you are attacking a doctor-basher as a FOX news watcher? Leave political attacks, especially muddle headed ones, out of it.Kind of a rather harsh and one sided attack on a profession largely populated with hard working, honest people. My doctor regularly discusses dietary & lifestyle changes as the first action to take with any medical issues I have. I just got back from his office, and in response to some elevated readings, he wants me to try a range of foods that aid the liver, lower my alcohol, and drop some weight. Prior to that he suggested long term dietary changes to lower my cholesterol, and prior to that adjust the sodium intake (DASH diet) and other changes to lower my blood pressure. they worked. Hardly sounds like a pill pusher working for Coca Cola / KFC. Some things however, are rather curable only with modern medicines or techniques. Why not, with an open mind and yes a recognition that food as god intended is best, take advantage of the best of both worlds? Why view medicine and diet as mutually antagonistic? If your doctor is a closed minded, out of date, pill pusher then change doctors.Awesome Thank you!is the diet that is good to follow as i wait for my transplantThank you for mentioning copper!!! You couldn’t be more right on. The doctors kept telling me nothing was wrong…Check out  for more information about the dangers of copper.I have beeb on Prednisone for 5 years.  Would anything help my liverHard to say in a quick conversation but you can always give your liver good nutrition.Don’t kid yourself.
Caffeine is a drug.
Don’t do drugs!I recently found the many health benefits of Organic Coconut Oil.
I take 1 teaspoon 3 X per day by mouth. It is a good fat, but also has so many health benefits, including kidney and liver detox.
It also helps kill bad bacteria, protects our good bacteria, is excellent for protecting our nervous system, and brain, including ADD, ADHD, Demitia, Alzhiemers. It also is know to kill cancer cells!
I also use it on my skin… I keep a small container in the bathroom and use it in place of expensive, toxic, face and body lotions. It seems like it would leave your skin oily, but it goes on smooth, and get right into the the layers of your skin to not only supply it with nutrients, but also helps replace the good oils we remove during a shower or bath.
I would look it up for your self…
“BENEFITS OF ORGANIC COCONUT OIL” (YOU WILL BE AMAZED)Hi, my father has a 9cm mass in his right side of liver, Does drinking freshly-squeezed lemon or lime juice in the morning helps? or will it be worsen?It depends what the mass is, has he been evaluated by someone?yes, the doctor evaluated him, but some people said that its not good to drink lemon juice early in the morning without breakfast , that’s why I am confuseThanks for all your info please keep up the truth and get people off these money  making drugs that are only to keep you alive long enough to make stock price go up……This is really going to help me in the related stuff..thanksHi Thelma. Incorporate turmeric in your food since it has good blood thinning capabilities.Ezekiel bread sesame flavor- is the best-made without flour-must toast it- no bad carbs-so no sugar rxn-made with live whole grains- it is delicious- I eat this on an off all year round-for the last 20 years-its kept in the frozen food sections of either health food stores or groceries. secondly you can eat Rye bread if you can get one with mostly rye- also other bread like Spelt are wonderful and they are quite different than wheat
and now they make bread with rice flour which is a huge improvement for carb sensitive people as well as its healthier.Great list of food and fruits beneficial to liver and they can be readily available making the care of our liver easier. Thank you.I have one problem with the list in this article:  The recommendation about eating whole grains surprises me.  I almost never find anything in Dr. Group’s advice that I can’t agree with.  This is a rare, but I think important exception.  In my opinion, and backed by some very good science and lots of observation of how my clients do, most should not be eating most grains at all in any form.  And whole wheat is usually horrible for anyone.  Contrary to popular beliefs, this is not about glutens.  Rather, most of the grains we are told belong in our diets are actually toxic, even if on a subtle level.  As far as I have been able to determine, only the following grains seem not to cause long-term health issues.  The safe grains for most are:
brown rice
quinoa
amaranth
millet and buckwheat, (which has nothing to do with wheat other than the name.)
And, of course, these should be organic.So I would love to know why Dr. Group is recommending whole wheat, or any kind of wheat for that matter.Hi Doc Edward, do you have a clinic here in the Philippines? I need to have a detox and I trust you’re the right guy to go to.Sorry Eddie, no clinic in the Philippines.thats what they said.I am 47 years old female.  I can not eat the meal at one time, if i eat, it comes back and I do not know whether it is because of liver problem.  Doctor has diagonised the GERD.  For this problem, Please advise me what should I do?Please inform me about this problem by email at the earliest,GERD and liver problems are two very different things. You may want to consider performing a liver cleanse, or a series of liver cleanses, and evaluate how it affects your condition, if it affects it.Hey Steve,  yea I meant “Dawn to Dusk”
Sorry my bad.LOL , Sorry I meant Dusk 🙂Hi doc can u just assure me that a cup of green tea per day would treat a half damaged liver??Do you offer a self-paced online course with the opportunity to earn a certificate for those of us that wish to begin a journey in natural medicine?Nice clip, thanks. Have you any suggestion what I can replace avocado with. I am allergic to it. ( Unbelievable that someone can be allergic to something so good but I am ). I see in all the juice recopies and cleanses etc that avocado is included… is there anything that can replace it and still do the same job? ThanksThey tell me the enzymes in my livers or To two Hi ?what can I do for thatOr u there?Right on Eddie!!!I wonder about the negative health effects of being a strident know it all. And I think it is time for “right on” on make a comeback.I have a calcification on my liver. Is there a tend
ency that it will grow bigger and bigger?It’s not absolute but it could.Hi, everyone….I am post liver transplant 16 years ago and now I am diagnosed with liver cirrhosis. I take daily medication – tacrolimus (prograf) & ursofalk. can anyone help me to suggest the best foods for me……Funny, when I went to medical school, we never learned about “liver stones”. This crud seems to be amazing, but I want to know how the liver stone seems to make if from the liver parenchyma (I know, it’s a big medical word) into the feces. Does it involve some sort of Star Trek teleportation? Do the herbs stimulate the liver muscles to contract and pop these mysterious things out, like you would pop a zit? And how could this seemingly great actor find time, much less the knowledge from a school of chiropractic, to be able to select just the right combo of herbs and spices to get this brilliant marketing trick just right? Did he test it on animals first, or go straight to human trials? So many questions! So many gullible people! So little proof of efficacy. I’m just in the wrong business.RE: Beets, spinach and walnuts.
What about oxalates? Leaky gut syndrome increases oxalate uptake.RE: Brown rice – What about arsenic?Good morning everyone, my name is Sandra from Pakistan, I have been suffering from
HIV/Aids for over 4years now, and suddenly, i have spent all my money all to make sure
i get healthy all day, but happily, last month January 12th 2013, I came in contact
with a traditional doctor also known as a chief priest on a newspaper who is called Dr
Cuba who has help much people to cure their aids disease, firstly i taught it was a
joke until i contacted him ” ‘drcubatemple@gmail.com ” and he said that if i am ready
for this work, i told him yes, and he collected my details and told me that after he
has finished consulting his oracle he will run back to me on when to go for a medical
check up, i was unhealthy ling surprise. And truly last week Monday Dr Cuba called me
to quickly go for a medical checkup, which I did, only to find out that I was not with
any HIV disease anymore, my friends and families who left me before run back to me. I
now found out that God in Heaven is using this man to bless and heal us all, he is a
great and powerful man, again I say to you sir, that God Almighty will uplift you and
your great work you did for I and other people. Please i will sincerely advice all HIV
patient to contact this great powerful man called Dr Cuba for your solutions now at
 he will help you on your HIV
problems…..email:drcubatemple@gmail.com or call doctor +2347038965900Good morning everyone, my name is ROBERT  from Pakistan, I have been suffering from
HIV/Aids for over 4years now, and suddenly, i have spent all my money all to make sure
i get healthy all day, but happily, last month January 12th 2013, I came in contact
with a traditional doctor also known as a chief priest on a newspaper who is called Dr
Cuba who has help much people to cure their aids disease, firstly i taught it was a joke until i contacted him ” ‘drogensurlahivcure@gmail.com ” and he said that if i am ready
for this work, i told him yes, and he collected my details and told me that after he
has finished consulting his oracle he will run back to me on when to go for a medical
check up, i was unhealthy ling surprise. And truly last week Monday Dr Cuba called me
to quickly go for a medical checkup, which I did, only to find out that I was not with
any HiV disease anymore, my friends and families who left me before run back to me. I
now found out that God in Heaven is using this man to bless and heal us all, he is a
great and powerful man, again I say to you sir, that God Almighty will uplift you and
your great work you did for I and other people. Please i will sincerely advice all HIV
patient to contact this great powerful man called Dr Cuba for your solutions now at
 he will help you on your HIV
problems…..email:drogensurlahivcure@gmail.com or call doctor +2349032484781Hi, everyone…. I am post liver transplant 16 years ago and now I am diagnosed with liver cirrhosis. I take daily medication – tacrolimusBottomline – his presentation has more credibility than those in the medical business. The human body is too complex and mysterious for anyone to claim expertise in it.Is Global Healing Center hiring?  Where can we find job postings?  Do you offer training?Not currently but feel free to send a resume to !ja ja ja, you’r funyhi, does anyone know if the fat burning soup diet works???My mouth is short of words, i am so so happy because Dr.ohehe has healed me from HIV ailment which i have been suffering from the past 5years now, i have spend alot when getting drugs from the hospital to keep me healthy, i have tried all means in life to always i can become Hiv negative one day, but there was no answer until i found  from Dr.ohehe the paris of african who provide me some healing spell that he uses to help me, now i am glad telling everyone that i am now HIV Negative, i am very very happy, thank you Dr.ohehe for helping my life comes back newly without anyform of crisis, may the good lord that i serve blessed you Dr.ohehe and equip you to the higher grade for healing my life. i am so amazed. so i will announced to everyone in this whole world that is HIV positive to please follow my advice and get healed on time, because we all knows that HIV disease is a deadly type,contact Dr.ohehe for your Hiv healing spell today at: …. He will be always happy to assist you online and ensure you get healed on time, contact Dr.ohehe today for your healing spell immediately, thank you sir: I want to thank Dr Aikhomun for the herbal HIV medicine he gave to me and my daughter, i was suffering from HIV when i gave birth to my daughter and that was how my daughter got the sickness indirect from me, but to God be the glory that i am heal with the herbal medicine that Dr. Aikhomun gave to me when i contacted him. i want to use this medium to tell everyone that the solution to our sickness has come, so i will like you to contact this great healer on his email address:  with him all your pains will be gone, i am really happy today that i and my daughter are cured of HIV, we are now negative after the use of his medicine,my doctor confirm it. once more i say a big thank to you Dr Aikhomun for healing hands upon my life and my daughter, i say may God continue to bless you abundantly and give you more power to keep helping those that want your help in their lives. email him now he is waiting to receive you. :Aikhomunspellhome@gmail.com, or call him on his cell phone number on :+2348148496015i am mrs Gregory from USA, i never believe that hiv cure is real on till i got in contact with Dr Kpelede, my HIV stated eight years ago, i was even waiting for death because all my money went out for drug, which keep me till today, one day i saw in the interment that HIV cure is out i then email Dr Kpelede, and he prepare the herb for me which i took, after taking it he told me to go to the hospital which i did, could you believe that i was confirm HIV negative after the test, and i went to another hospital and it was also negative. if you have this problem and you want to be free from it please contact this doctor with this email address  you can call him any time on +2347038111854 he is the best HIV cure you will find in the whole world. thank you Dr Kpelede am free now.I live in UK. This is a testimony I want to make. I was an HIV positive for 8 years taking anti retrovirus. As I was reading online some 5 months ago I saw a testimony on cure of HIV. I decided to give a try. Now as am telling you am very negative tested 4 times in 5 months after finishing mu cure. The cure is a pure herbs from Africa shipped to me through DHL. My cure took about 5days.Dear brothers and sisters if you are out there, please the cure is out and rush to have yours. If you are interested, email the researcher using  I will encourage every person who come across this mail to cure yourself if you are positive  you can call him any time on +2347038111854
 thank to Dr KpeledeHi just found out a year ago I have liver stones and since then iv been to the ER in June 4 then exactly a month after suffering from attacks what can I do to change my diet and help with my pain I’m in canada and can’t find much on liver stones I live in UK. This is a testimony I want to make. I was an HIV positive for 8 years taking anti retrovirus. As I was reading online some 5 months ago I saw a testimony on cure of HIV. I decided to give a try. Now as am telling you am very negative tested 4 times in 5 months after finishing mu cure. The cure is a pure herbs from Africa shipped to me through DHL. My cure took about 5days.Dear brothers and sisters if you are out there, please the cure is out and rush to have yours. If you are interested, email the researcher using  I will encourage every person who come across this mail to cure yourself if you are positive  you can call him any time on +2347038111854
 thank to Dr KpeledeI am miss JOY from USA, i never believe that HIV AID cure is real on till i got in contact with Dr Kpelede, my HIV started six years ago, i was even waiting for death because all my money went out for drugs, which keep me till today, one day i saw in the internet that HIV cure is out i then email Dr Kpelede, and he prepared out the herb drug for me which i took, after taking it he told me to go to the hospital which i did, could you believe that i was confirm HIV negative after the test and i went to another hospital and it was also negative as the same. if you have this kind of problem and you want to be free from it please contact this doctor with this email address , you can call him any time on +2347038111854I was diagnosed of this HIV deadly disease a friend of mine introduce Dr Kpelede to me and I actually did contact him after he has prepare what he said he will do and he sent it to me and I used it according to his prescription after one week I went to the hospital to check my status again because I was feeling differently from the way I used when I was tested POSITIVE to my greatest surprise the status was NEGATIVE the medical doctors there was surprise and I have to tell the whole world about this if you are still having this similar problem I recommend you to Dr Kpelede for you here is his email address: , you can call him any time on +2347038111854Good day everyone, my name is Miss Sarah from USA, i have been suffering from HIV/Aids for over 4years now, and suddenly,i have spent all my money,all to make sure i get healthy all day no good result,but happily last month February 12th 2014, i came in contact with a traditional doctor also known as a chief priest on a newspaper who is called dr Kpelede, who help me to cure effective called aids, firstly i taught it was a joke until i go for check up. please viewers, contact this man for your healing on his email address here, , try and see…or call +2347038111854I am Rose thank God for the wonderful healing spell power which Dr SALAMI render to my life which oracle support, i was been diagnosed with HIV-AIDS over 7years now which has lead me to unemployment and loosing my relationship with my fiance after he heard that i am suffering from the VIRUS, i tried begging him to allow me stays with him, but he still insist on letting me out of his home, until a friend of mine on Facebook from SOUTH AFRICA told me more about Dr SALAMI the great healer, that he is going to help restore and healed my diseased with his powerful healing spell, she send me of Dr SALAMI email address and i quickly contacted him, and he replied to after 30mins of my message that my disease is a little and minor disease, that he will solved the disease immediately only if i can accept all he requested from, i told him yes, because truly i know that ” HIV-AIDS IS A WICKED AND DEADLY DISEASE I EVER KNOWS “. so i did all he want from me and surprisingly on Friday last week Dr Camala called me that my problems is solved that i should hurry up to the hospital for a checkup, which i truly really did, i confirm from my doctor that i am now NEGATIVE AND NOT LONG +, I jump up and was crying heavily because truly the disease drive alot of things away from my life, my friends, my cousin, my fiance and relatives, but now since i was confirm NEGATIVE- my lost friends and fiance has been back to me begging for forgiveness, i have forgiven them and now we are now best of friend. again i will say to Dr SALAMI that he is blessed and may the almighty God which i serve raise him and his family to the higher level in life. Thank and god bless. Please email Dr SALAMI for healing and solution now at  or contact his phone number +2349032406938I am Rose thank God for the wonderful healing spell power which Dr SALAMI render to my life which oracle support, i was been diagnosed with HIV-AIDS over 7years now which has lead me to unemployment and loosing my relationship with my fiance after he heard that i am suffering from the VIRUS, i tried begging him to allow me stays with him, but he still insist on letting me out of his home, until a friend of mine on Facebook from SOUTH AFRICA told me more about Dr SALAMI the great healer, that he is going to help restore and healed my diseased with his powerful healing spell, she send me of Dr SALAMI email address and i quickly contacted him, and he replied to after 30mins of my message that my disease is a little and minor disease, that he will solved the disease immediately only if i can accept all he requested from, i told him yes, because truly i know that ” HIV-AIDS IS A WICKED AND DEADLY DISEASE I EVER KNOWS “. so i did all he want from me and surprisingly on Friday last week Dr Camala called me that my problems is solved that i should hurry up to the hospital for a checkup, which i truly really did, i confirm from my doctor that i am now NEGATIVE AND NOT LONG +, I jump up and was crying heavily because truly the disease drive alot of things away from my life, my friends, my cousin, my fiance and relatives, but now since i was confirm NEGATIVE- my lost friends and fiance has been back to me begging for forgiveness, i have forgiven them and now we are now best of friend. again i will say to Dr SALAMI that he is blessed and may the almighty God which i serve raise him and his family to the higher level in life. Thank and god bless. Please email Dr SALAMI for healing and solution now at  or contact his phone number +2349032406938.I am Rose thank God for the wonderful healing spell power which Dr SALAMI render to my life which oracle support, i was been diagnosed with HIV-AIDS over 7years now which has lead me to unemployment and loosing my relationship with my fiance after he heard that i am suffering from the VIRUS, i tried begging him to allow me stays with him, but he still insist on letting me out of his home, until a friend of mine on Facebook from SOUTH AFRICA told me more about Dr SALAMI the great healer, that he is going to help restore and healed my diseased with his powerful healing spell, she send me of Dr SALAMI email address and i quickly contacted him, and he replied to after 30mins of my message that my disease is a little and minor disease, that he will solved the disease immediately only if i can accept all he requested from, i told him yes, because truly i know that ” HIV-AIDS IS A WICKED AND DEADLY DISEASE I EVER KNOWS “. so i did all he want from me and surprisingly on Friday last week Dr Camala called me that my problems is solved that i should hurry up to the hospital for a checkup, which i truly really did, i confirm from my doctor that i am now NEGATIVE AND NOT LONG +, I jump up and was crying heavily because truly the disease drive alot of things away from my life, my friends, my cousin, my fiance and relatives, but now since i was confirm NEGATIVE- my lost friends and fiance has been back to me begging for forgiveness, i have forgiven them and now we are now best of friend. again i will say to Dr SALAMI that he is blessed and may the almighty God which i serve raise him and his family to the higher level in life. Thank and god bless. Please email Dr SALAMI for healing and solution now at  or contact his phone number +2349032406938..I am Rose thank God for the wonderful healing spell power which Dr SALAMI render to my life which oracle support, i was been diagnosed with HIV-AIDS over 7years now which has lead me to unemployment and loosing my relationship with my fiance after he heard that i am suffering from the VIRUS, i tried begging him to allow me stays with him, but he still insist on letting me out of his home, until a friend of mine on Facebook from SOUTH AFRICA told me more about Dr SALAMI the great healer, that he is going to help restore and healed my diseased with his powerful healing spell, she send me of Dr SALAMI email address and i quickly contacted him, and he replied to after 30mins of my message that my disease is a little and minor disease, that he will solved the disease immediately only if i can accept all he requested from, i told him yes, because truly i know that ” HIV-AIDS IS A WICKED AND DEADLY DISEASE I EVER KNOWS “. so i did all he want from me and surprisingly on Friday last week Dr Camala called me that my problems is solved that i should hurry up to the hospital for a checkup, which i truly really did, i confirm from my doctor that i am now NEGATIVE AND NOT LONG +, I jump up and was crying heavily because truly the disease drive alot of things away from my life, my friends, my cousin, my fiance and relatives, but now since i was confirm NEGATIVE- my lost friends and fiance has been back to me begging for forgiveness, i have forgiven them and now we are now best of friend. again i will say to Dr SALAMI that he is blessed and may the almighty God which i serve raise him and his family to the higher level in life. Thank and god bless. Please email Dr SALAMI for healing and solution now at  or contact his phone number +2349032406938…Pingback: ()Pingback: ()you mean dusk to dawnI bet they dothe exact same happened to me.everyone likes to diagnose themselves with a gluten allergy where in reality it is a tiny minority of people that have it. Eating way too much carbs will bloat most of us and isn’t an allergyPingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()he hee he; niice chuckle for the start of my day.  thanx.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()my RA doc. told me, i can take Tylenol OA  i took that my liver start getting bad so fast.. i took test shows that i had fatty liver?  watch what u are taking OTC drugsPingback: ()is red wine vinegar mixed with evoo ok over salads?Sure, it tastes great.can you give me idea about controlling drug induced hepatotoxicity through any food or plantsJoysy, first, clean up your diet and remove things that could put stress on the liver, Then you can do coffee enemas. Timely nourishing and cleansing is critical. Nourishing is best during the day, while cleansing should be done in the evening. Love your liver.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()A vegetable juice fast cured my 15 year battle with acne.
Funny the juice that I drank contained most of these vegetables/fruit.
It does work.
I think when you have skin problems your body is trying to tell you that something wrong is going on with your internal organs.
I now no longer put anything on my face. I just wash it an leave it.
My  skin has never looked better.
Once a year I do the fast again.
My drink consists of : carrots ,celery , cucumber, beets , apples, grapefruit, spinach.Pingback: ()Dr. Group, you say that grapefruit  increases the natural cleansing processes of the liver. I just learned by Ann Louise Gittleman, PhD in holistic nutrition and a master’s degree in nutrition education, that grapefruit and grapefruit juice contain a compound called
naringen that can interfere with the liver-cleansing process. I her detox program she advises to avoid this fruit when in the process of liver cleansing. Now, you recommend we do the exact opposite!  It’s really confusing and hard to decide on whom to believe these days. The information is so broad and diversified, and at the same time so contradictory!My brother Allan is admitted in the hospital. We got him milk thistle and  tumeric root extract vitamins. Doctor said he couldn’t take them. He has liver damage from alcohol. I even wanted to put him in acupuncture or acupressure. I have a meeting with my brothers doctor tomorrow. Would it be harmful.Naringin can interfere with prescriptions… what does she have to say about it interfering with liver cleansing?What do I do if I have primary biliary cirrhosis? Is liver cleansing going to make my symptoms worse?Hard to say, your situation is a complex one with a lot of variables — causes, nutrition, related health, etc etc. You’d probably be best served by getting some one-on-one evaluation from a naturopath and dietician in your area who can give you a much more complete analysis of your total picture and needs.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()water with pieces of lime is good tooI’m having liver issues also trying to eat healthy and cleanse my liver but that is a good question what is a good regiment to start with?Thanks doctors Stop drinking and eating processed foods.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()how many mg of milk thistle works the wonders?Is yogurt a good food for a healthy liver, like ActiviaThat was funny!High ALT problems could also be something else also.Pingback: ()Howdy rowdy!Pingback: ()GREEN TEA…WHAT SOURCE DO YOU RECOMMEND??do you put sugar in green teahi shellane-hope u r okay now.Just avoid alcohol,cigarretes,fatty food,salt and sugar.oh,also processed food.Eat lots of veggies esp. the green ones and fruits. Drink green tea and ginger.I crushed fresh ginger and mix it with the green tea.I too had an operation on my liver just 3 months ago.They called it a punctured hepatoma and I never ever want to go through that again.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Dawn til dusk, that’s one day.  Just like Shabbat…We like brown rice bread.and dandelion …My dad has liver failure, can he safely do the cleanse and limit his diet to the items listed above?Pingback: ()Pingback: ()…and so did I hahaha.  🙂I have read researches that say Green Tea can be toxic for a weak liver. You might want to check that again and edit your article. where did you see that?Frum dawn to dust  `_(-!°)_/’Are there recipe’s for these 14 items that I can incorporate into my  diet? Would be better for me to know sustainable meals instead of just what to use and the terms small amounts. I am not trying  to be snarky just would like to know the way to plan meals using these items.hi, thank you for this great post. Liked reading it. Very useful advise about healthy foodsShabbat is from dusk to dusk.   25 hours.Does cinnamon help or harm the liver?Pingback: ()Pingback: ()That is a terrible idea. Fasting does not hold up to scientific study and actually puts strain on a body already experiencing difficulties with the liver. Worst advice possible.We always worry and keep on studying several things about heart, kidney, arthritis, nervous system and never take deep study about LIVER  which plays very important role in humans life.
The best and very simple way to keep LIVER healthy is first thing in the morning , just take a spoonful of FENUGREEK- in other words METHI for Indian; with warm water and gulp without crushing it .  Just take this for 3 days ,Once in 6 months .  This is enough.
Bhargavaram My mother is suffering from liver cirrhosis for the last 10 years but now a days it become more severeRecently she has done a sonography ans as per the doctor her 70%liver is not workingSo pls suggest me that the abovementioned diet is helpful for herPle give your revertTHANKSPingback: ()Yes….Intermittent fasting is excellentThroughout history, fasting has been used to heal.
I once went to a fasting clinic.  Great experience.  When I left the clinic after fasting 7 days on distilled water only, I felt “clean”.  My hair glistened.  My vision, and sense of smell were keen.  My skin was as a newborn baby’s skin. We had to drink a certain amount of water daily.  I believe it was a quart.  I was near 50 years old when I went to the clinic.  I am now 76 years old.
In the evenings, we had meetings to talk, and had a prayer at the end of the meeting.  We had to go to bed at 9:00pm.  We also were to take a short nap during the day.  The clinic was under a doctor’s supervision.
Unfortunately, the medical establishment had the clinic shut down because an 85 year old man went home after leaving the clinic, and I suspect did not follow directions..he died.  He was 85 years.  I met many people of all walks of life there.  While I was there,  a professional baseball player, there had been famous movie directors come to the clinic.  People attended from all over the U.S.while I was there.  The clinic only attended a small group at a time.
The medical/pharma industry don’t like competition, will lose their profit if people become well.  People have become TOO dependent on the medical/pharmaceutical industry.
After fasting, you must watch what you eat after the fast.  I was given ONLY fresh fruit, the first meal.  The second meal, if I can remember was ONLY raw vegetables.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()fast long enough u will be” dust in the wind ,all we are is dusssttt  in the wind”’So awesome. Your amazing. thanks for bringing your research all into one place for usThe moment a human baby opens thir eyes life can become very confusing to figure out if it’s this one, or is it that one?. In thy end it doesn’t matter what’s right, we were always going to try it anyway coz we are curious like that. I know a lot of people who have detoxed and they are still here alive and well so I don’t think that it will hurt anyone who doesn’t have a serious health condition. NOT FUNNYOH THERE ARE PEOPLE HERE WHO ARE SERIOUS IF YOU WANT TO BE A COMEDIENNE  YOUR AT THE WRONG PLACEYES THE PHARMA WONT LIKE THIS ONE BIT. THEY WANT TO SELL DRUGSIDIOTDO YOU. ITS GENETICALLY MODIFIEDYOUR NOT ILL ENOUGH THENFrank, the Bible warned the people about the pharmakeia, yet the people are dependent.  The nation must turn back to God’s Word.I’ve often said, doctors are nothing more than legal, glorified drug pushers.  Many people go into medicine with good intentions, but the hierarchy want PROFIT.  Anything/anyone that puts profit over life is a sin.   It’s pure evil.I know there is a cancer cure, yet the medical/pharmakeia make too much money from the disease.  It sickens me.  DO NOT TAKE CHEMOTHERAPY.YES LOIS I DO KNOW ALL ABOUT THE PHARMA AGENCIES THEY ARE OWNED BY ZIONIST JEWS WHO ARE TRYING TO REDUCE THE POPULATION AND WE DONT KNOW WHAT THEY ARE PUTTING IN THOSE DRUGS. I WAS ON ANTI PSYCHOTICS FOR YEARS AND WAS GIVEN THEM OFF LABEL FOR DEPRESSION. AND I WOULD NOT BE SURPRISED IF THOSE DRUGS CAUSED ALL THE ILLNESS I HAVE NOW. LIKE LIVER PROBLEMS AND GALLBLADDER PROBLEMS IM ACTUALLY WAITING TO GO AND HAVE MY GALL BLADDER REMOVED. ALSO MY BLOOD PRESSURE IS HIGH. THEY HAVE DESTROYED MY METABOLISM. I PUT ON 5 STONE WHEN I WAS ON THOSE DRUGS AND STILL TRYING TO GET OFF THEM. WHAT HAPPENS WHEN YOU STOP TAKING THEM IS YOU BECOME SUICIDAL AND I TOOK AN OVERDOSE AND TRIED TO DO AWAY WITH MYSELF. BUT I HAVE OVERCOME IT ALL AND AM NEARLY OFF THE ANTI PSYCHOTICS NOW I GOT IT IN LIQUID FORM EVENTUALLY AND CUT DOWN VERY SLOWLY OVER TWO YEAR. AND STILL CUTTING DOWN. DO YOU KNOW ABOUT THE CHEMTRAILS. THEY SAY THE ARE RELEASING GAS FROM JET PLANES TO HELP THE OZONE. BUT I HAVE HEARD ON UTUBE FROM SCIENTISTS THAT THERE ARE NANO PARTICLES THAT WE BREATH IN THAT PASS THE BLOOD BRAIN BARRIER AND CAUSE ALL SORTS OF ILLNESS. ON SEPTEMBER 23 THIS YEAR SOMETHING TERRIBLE IS GOING TO HAPPEN ITS SOMETHING TO DO WITH CERN. YOU SHOULD LOOK IT UP ON UTUBE AND FIND OUT ALL ABOUT IT. AS THE BIBLE WARNS US ABOUT ALL THIS THAT IS HAPPENING TODAY AND MOST PEOPLE DONT KNOW OR DONT WANT TO KNOW ABOUT IT. I DO READ THE BIBLE AND SAY MY PRAYERS AND HAVE A CLOSE RELATIONSHIP WIT GOD AND JESUS. I AM NOT STUPID AS A LOT OF PEOPLE THINK THAT BECAUSE THEY NEVER GIVE A THOUGHT ABOUT JESUS OR GOD. THEY ARE TO BUSY THINKING ABOUT THERE OWN SELFISH LIVES. IM SORRY I KNOW I AM BRUTAL BUT SOMETIMES YOU HAVE TO BE TO GET THE MESSAGE ACCROS. THOSE CHEM TRAILS ARE CAUSING SO MANY ILLNESS’S ITS UNBELIEVABLE. CHECK OUT CHEM TRAILS ON UTUBE AND ALSO SEPTEMBER 23RD. 2015 I READ YOUR STORY YESTERDAY AND WAS SO HAPPY FOR YOU AS YOU HAVE DONE SO WELL LOOKING AFTER YOUR HEALTH AND DOING THE RIGHT THING YOU ARE A GOOD EXAMPLE TO THE SHEEPLE.Frank, I’m sincerely, sad to hear of your traumatic times with your
health, and I sincerely wish you good health.  Keep the faith,
I know my faith has sustained me.  God bless you Frank!Since I am aging, my health declining, I can see all my ills, the
whys.  Since I’ve been aging I’ve been reading more of God’s Word…wonderful
wisdom.  I’ve always been a person of faith.Since my 20’s I’ve lived alot of STRESS, and know this is why I’ve
suffered in the area of the liver.   I took an interest in health, always
looking for an answer..this is a sign of liver issues.  I started studying the
Chinese Five Element Theory of medicine…a good study.  If a person has stress in their life, they should go to a good group session, and speak, get things off
their chest.  You can’t separate the mind/body/spirit.I had my gallbladder removed this last February…a BIG MISTAKE.
My acupuncturist said he could heal my gallbladder, drain the stones with herbs
and treatment.  I normally would have gone this way, but my family wanted me to
have surgery because I had been having gallstone attacks, so I went along.  They
thought it was the best way.  I’m sorry I had the surgery.  My surgeon said my liver looked VERY BAD, has scars, looks chewed
up.  This is what happens if you live with alot of stress.  I am a diabetic. I
don’t drink alcohol, never have.  I don’t smoke or drink coffee, never have.
STRESS is at the bottom of ALL DISEASE.I recommend acupuncture, herbs, and herbal formulas.  Eat clean.
God gave us herbs for food.  I like Auyervedic, and Chinese medicine herbal
formulas.  I do know that the herb Milk Thistle is good for the
liver.Bottom line, Frank, we should avoid feeling fear, feeling anxious, worrying
because anxiety creates depression.  Our faith is our strength.  Staying close
to our precious family is so important.  Take care!  I wish you well!P.S.  Remember, anything to do with the eyes, has to do with the liver.  Try to roll your eyes to the right 30 times, then 30 times to the left.Have you ever tried to do intermittent fasting?  Our bodies need rest with digestion.  Also, good sleep at NIGHT is imperative.thanks lois for the lovely letter. i am doing the eye exercises. at the moment I’m drinking organic apple cider vinegar which i really seem to enjoy.   i could not write down about my past life. its to terrible. the way i lived. and how i lived. but that is 27 years in the past. i have had hepatitis b when i was 21 and hepatitis c. i must have had that for years before i knew i got cured through the medicine i had to take it was a form of viral chemotherapy and the hepatitis is gone i also had a disease which was a secondary illness from the hep c called cryoglobulinemia. that has gone now to as it was a secondary illness to the hep c. although i’v set the wheels in motion for the gallbladder removal I’m taking steps by drinking the vinegar and going to do a liver cleanse soon. i can always cancel the operation if i get better before the time comes. i have been suffering terrible terrible pain and they said when i went to the scan that i only had one large stone. i’v noticed since i’v been drinking the vinegar that my poo is turning slight green i don’t know what that means. i will take on board all your other suggestions as you have been where i am and i have not been where you are. i do agree that stress is a killer. thanks for taking the time to tell me good information i appreciate it.i just want to tell you that i will keep you in my prayers. god bless you lois?Thank you Frank.  You’re in my prayers.  God bless!Frank, do you ever check your PH balance?  We’re supposed to be 80% alkaline/20%acidity.  The problem with the American diet, Americans have become more acidous.   ALSO, a body can become acidous from STRESS.  Check out, from Amazon, or your local health food store, some PH paper, or  PH strips.  Stay hydrated!Also, check out the book “Eat Right For (4) Your Type”, by Dr. Peter D’Adamo.  It talks of the blood type groups, on what foods they can and should not eat.  Milk Thistle is known to help the liver!  My son once was given Milk Thistle by a Naturalist doctor…for the liver.  I buy mine from Trader Joe’s.Frank, I’m sorry, I’ve probably talked too much, but I care about people.  Take care, I wish you good health.  God bless!  Keep the faith!LOIS YOU NEVER TALK TO MUCH AND ITS GOOD SENSE THAT WHY ITS NOT TO MUCH. I LOVE YOUR ADVICE. I AM IN THE UK. I WILL FIND OUT HOW TO CHECK MY PH BALANCE. I AM EATING WELL. ORGANIC  FOOD MOSTLY AND DRINKING BRATTS ORGANIC MOTHER VINEGAR EVERY DAY NOW FOR ABOUT TWO WEEKS. I EAT LOTS OF FISH.NO MICROWAVE MEALS OR MAYBE ONE IN A BLUE MOON. I MAKE LOTS OF SOUP WITH AS MUCH ORGANIC VEG AS I CAN GET. I DONT KNOW HOW I HAVE GALL STONES. I NEVER EVER HAVE INDIGESTION MY CHOLESTEROL IS GOOD. I ONLY EVER HAD TERRIBLE PAIN THATS HOW I FOUND OUT I HAD GALL STONE. ONLY ONE VERY LARGE ONE THEY SAID AND THEY SAID IT WAS VERY LARGE FOR A GALL STONE.WEIRD EH?Frank, you sound like you’re being very health conscious..a very good thing!
I don’t know how old you are, but the earlier in age we begin a good health
regimen, the better. I encourage my family, the younger ones, to learn good
health YOUNG. I only wish I knew 50 years ago, what I know today. I only wish I
learned earlier in life. I know health is individual….we have to pick what works best for us individually. I wish you good health!!May I offer a couple more thoughts? My son, every day, makes a raw green leafy smoothie, adding chia seeds, pumpkin seeds, walnuts. He uses a little almond milk, and water. He puts in a scoop of whey protein powder.  He buys a tub of special greens at the local grocery, kale,
spinach…adds about a cup of greens. He just now started adding DANDELION
greens, which are especially good for the liver.  He also adds a cup of  berries (raspberries/blueberries/blackberries), he buys at Trader Joe’s. He says he can last the whole day with energy, drinking this smoothie.  Another thought I want to add which might help you understanding the body. In
my study of the Five Element theory on medicine, I learned our body has an
ascending energy, and a descending energy. The organ systems of the ascending energy are the heart and the lung. The organ systems of the descending energy are the kidney, liver, and spleen/digestive system. So if we have a weakened descending system, it reverses strongly,  and we can have heart/lung problems. Think of allergies…our heads, become congested because our descending systems are under strain.  God designed us so MASTERFULLY.Again, I hope I haven’t overstepped, given information overload, but I care about you, and others. I live in the U.S. Take care of yourself! God bless!  Keep the faith!Pingback: ()i am 64. and actually a woman i use my brothers computer. i was so glad to read all those things you told me about. and i a like you i care about people and help them i other ways because of what i have experienced and i always wonder if i have said to much or gone over  the top. its just that we care and want to help everyone. the good thing is that all your advice is written down and i can go over it all again when i need it. and i also pass on tips to my boyfriend that you have given me. i had a juicer but felt that it wasnt good taking to much fruit every day and all the carrots i was taking plus to tell you the truth it was to hard to clean out. it was very expensive my boy friend picked it and it has little rubber bit on it that you have to take of and bleach to get the black bits out. i don’t know where they come form . but what i will get is a blender. its more than that but i forget the name of it. you put all your veg in like kale spinach and other leafy greens an some water and it tears it all and makes it into a drink. a lot of people use it for soft fruit and put butter milk or yogurt in but i don’t eat dairy products except for some eggs now and then.
i will check out that five elements that your talking about as the east had all the answers years ago. i have organic hemp protein and when i have porridge i have already blended and stored in the fridge almonds sunflower seeds and flax seeds. all organic.and i put that in my porride. i don’t know why i am not fit lois. i think its the anti psychotics. i went to a site called mad in america its all about psychiatric drugs. i was at my very lowest and should never had been put on them and the thing is once you are on them for a few months if you stop taking them you are suicidal and can’t stop crying and full of terrible fear. i was full of fear on them as i had terrible nightmare and was scared to go to bed. thankful I’m nearly of them iv only got two more times to cut down and that will take 2 moths and i will be completely off them. they affect every organ in the body.the amount I’m taking now i can’t even really feel but its still safer to cut down. you know the people who own the pharmaceutical industry own  the cigarets as well and they were putting more nicotine in they ciggs than they were saying on the packet. and that is what i think they are doing with the drugs. its all those zionist jews who own everything and they are still trying to do away with us and rule the world. i know it sounds mad but i know its true. its all over twitter and utube. they are ruled by lucifer. well thats another subject I’m sorry for going on about that but its in the bible in revelations. i understand revelations now i never used to. when u used to read the bible i  thought i was reading about something long long ago but its relevant right up to today. sorry for going off on a tangent but i don’t know if you are aware of the illuminati.!? the healthiest people  never go to doctors. they get paid plenty money from the pharma for giving out certain drugs. they actually caused disease so that they can sell the medicine to treat the symptoms. did you know that anyway lois. to get back to your good advice i will do what you say. if i had know years ago i would not have done it as i was to stupid i always thought those things won’t happen to me so illness has in fact been a good teacher to me. i do appreciate all the time and good advice and your wisdom that you share with me and i do listen and take your advice. so don’t give up on me based on this email. please lois. i need help with my health. i think that thing i was talking about is called a nutri bullet. thanks again lois.Pingback: ()well lois that is certainly a lot to think about and read its strange but I’m sure you are the same blood type as me its says either b or 0 as i am antilea2 neg or pos i can’t remember i’v got a special card to carry around and i don’t know where it is. lol. it great that you have a big family i would have loved that. i’v just got a daughter a brother and sister who i never hear from. i hear from my daughter but we don’t get on very well as there is only 18 years between us and we were the best of friends which i don’t think is a good idea. i think a parent should be a parent. she was brought up in care and so was i’ my husband died after 4 years of marriage and i went right of the rails. and my god i’v paid for it dearly and still am.(feeling sorry for myself) i try my best with my daughter but she is so like me we can only take each other in small doses. i get so lonely and i sit on the chair on the computer and i used to be so active. i did belly dancing and taught it and did yoga and pilates and went to the gym. i don’t know whats wrong with me. I’m not really that much over wight. I’m 5.2 inch and 10stone. i look slim enough i have no swollen ankles a bit of fat on swollen  tummy but not bad at all.i’v lost a lot of weight since iv cut down drastically over the two year on the anti psychotics. I’m down to one mil i only have two more cuts to make and that will take me two months as i like to take it slow. the doctors said i could do it in a month but i like to let my body adjust slowly. i know what you mean about the jiucer and cleaning it. and its no good if your not getting any fibre. i go to the toilet very quickly in the morning even if i’v not eaten and i frequently go twice a day. I’m drinking organic vinegar with the mother in it. bratts its called i think. with apple juice. must be two weeks now. i really should write it all down. I’m expecting a visitor so will end this now and get back to you soon and also have a look at the books your recommending. thanks again. sorry I’m in a hurry.. love to you.?my doc said not to  cause who knows whats in those bottles   I agree eat natural a lot of garlicMy father has Hepatic hydatid disease
daughter cysts are present in righ side. I am very confused how to remove the daugher of cysts on liver. please suggest for food for this disease. may we operate surgical operation.Pingback: ()What a bunch of pseudo-science nonsense.Pingback: ()Thanks, humor and health goes together.What do you do if you have something in your body that is harmful and you want to get it through your system. How do you get rid of it?Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Eating or drinking grapefruit or grapefruit juice while on any prescription medication can kill you! I worked for a cancer specialty hospital for years and was there when the problem was discovered. Grapefruit opens up your intestines and allows up to 10 times the amount of medicine to pass into your bloodstream so you overdose! Other citrus also do this on a much milder rate, but grapefruit to an extreme. Frank,I’ve been diligently reading your posts and I would like to recommend to you a wonderful juicer I know about. It is the Vitamix.  My cousins swear by it. I’ve tried the juices that were juiced in this machine and they are phenomenal.  I’m pinching my pennies in hopes that one day I can get myself one as well. Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()My father was battling liver disease and I was at a loss to give him the support he needed. Until I found this natural remedy
(  ) I never believed that there is so much of help available. I highly recommend this for understanding Liver Disorders and if you’re struggling to cope it will become your guide through the difficult times ahead.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Only eat good organic Vegetables. 🙂I’m on my flush day of the liver/gallbladder cleanse. I’m super nervous about tonight’s portion of the flush. Also, are headaches normal? Almost all week I’ve experienced dizziness and headaches. I’m hoping thats a sure sign that it’s cleansing properly. Love your products dr group!! Thanks for all of your workMy father was battling liver disease and I was at a loss to give him the support he needed. Until I found a natural remedy that works, never believed that there is so much of help available. I highly recommend this for understanding Liver Disorders and if you’re struggling to cope it will become your guide through the difficult times ahead.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Milk Thistle seed tea will cleanse the liver and the gallbladder. Drink milk thistle tea three times daily for good health.Thank you on the tip on Milk Thistle seed tea.  I agree, milk thistle is good for the liver.  It helped my son.  I didn’t know it came in a tea.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Kristen , thank you for posting what has worked for you to turn  around your situation.  I have very similar problems and plan to revert to your protocol.. Thanks again !Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Dear Dr. Edward Group:My feelings of gratitude guide me to write my whole experience with you Liver Cleansing Products.Around February of the year 2015 I came down with a horrible, excruciating pain on my
right side under my rib cage, on the scale 0 meaning no pain and 10 unbearable, my pain was a number 9.Called my doctor and she opened a space to see me that same day, after a exam followed by two x-rays, she could not find anything wrong, she said his office will make an appointment with an abdominal specialist.I waited for three weeks for the appointment finally I called the abdominal specialist, made an appointment and went to see him. This group of doctors had a field day with me, two more x-rays, follow by endoscopy then by colonoscopy, and a cat scan.After a couple of months of going to this clinic, these doctors told me that they could not find anything wrong with me, the machines show nothing so they did nothing to ease the pain, meanwhile I was treating my self with heating pads, organic castor oil patches and a tight elastic belt and a load of OTC pain and sleeping pills.
I made an appointment with a sports medicine doctor, one more exam and one more x-rays, to hear him say “I cannot find anything wrong with you”
Next visit, another group of specialist on internal organs and pain management, two more x-rays, follow by more exams and two MRIs, they found nothing, nothing.
I have gone from February to October with severe pain, my life was indeed miserable, loaded with pain pills to somehow ease the pain.On October 22, 2015, I traveled to Minneapolis Min, for a three days Eckankar World Wide Seminar, after I finished signing up, looked around and saw a dear friend of many years who happens to be a holistic healer, we hugged and she became aware of my pain, she took me to a corner of the building away from the crowd, did a
brief exam and said “is your liver” she added, the doctors could not find anything because it is not too bad yet. When I returned she sent to me a couple of bottles with some encapsulated herbs, I spent three weeks taking these and the pain dropped a good 25 percent.Now that the problem was identified I did a research in the web and found a recommendation from a man that I respect and admire, Mr. Mike Adams endorsing your products.I ordered your liver cleansing, followed the instructions to the letter, finished the cleansing and the pain dropped another 30%, I ordered a second liver cleansing, finished this one around the first week of January 2016 and the pain has disappeared, all I have now is a minor discomfort on the area where I had such a horrible pain. I am still taking the left over Oxypowder and the Flora, next I will do another cleansing in about a month.Thank you so much for your wonderful products; you have been a blessing for me.With gratitude:HaroldHolguinPingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()I WANT TO SHARE MY EXPERIENCE OF HOW I GOT CURED FROM HIV BY HERBALMEDICINE. It may sound strange! For the past 6years i have spent a lot ofmoney in buying anti-retroviral medicines to strengthen my immune systemand keep me healthy, until i read an article on the internet about anAfrica Herbalist who uses herbs and roots to cure cancer and all kind of diseases.Though i never believed he can cure HIV, but i decided to give it a trybecause i was desperate. Then i sent a message to the him on his email. He prepared herbal medications and send it to methrough DHL COURIER SERVICE and i took it as he instructed. 11days after, iwent to the hospital to do a checkup, the result came out and i testedNEGATIVE. I’m sharing this with you, because i believe there’s someone outhere who also desire to have this cure. feel free to send a message to himthrough his email  . or call on him +2348103355314or add him onwhatsappIt may sound strange! For the past 6years i have spent a lot ofmoney in buying anti-retroviral medicines to strengthen my immune systemand keep me healthy, until i read an article on the internet about anAfrica Herbalist who uses herbs and roots to cure cancer and all kind of diseases.Though i never believed he can cure HIV, but i decided to give it a trybecause i was desperate. Then i sent a message to the him on his email. He prepared herbal medications and send it to methrough DHL COURIER SERVICE and i took it as he instructed. 11days after, iwent to the hospital to do a checkup, the result came out and i testedNEGATIVE. I’m sharing this with you, because i believe there’s someone outhere who also desire to have this cure. feel free to send a message to himthrough his email  . or call on him +2348103355314or add him onwhatsappPingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()I’m very happy for the great help that Doctor obaseki render to me. My name Richard williams i live in Texas.I have had lots of trouble with herpes. I have had cold sores on/in my mouth area, on my chin, on my thumb, I have seen lots of blogs and articles of some person speaking about how doctor obaseki had cured them with his herbal treatment so i decided to give it a try. I mailed him(dr.obasekihomeofsolution@gmail.com). He replied and promised to help me with the cure and make me healthy again, he told me what to do and i went according to the instructions given by doctor obaseki, some weeks after he told me to go for a check up. I did as he said, at first i taught the doctor was lieing when he told me i was negative not until he showed me the result. I want anyone who is ready this testimony to know that God helped me through his son dr obaseki and he can also help you to. He also treats cancers, low sperm count and many other diseases.. You can contact him through his email: ………..Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()For those of us who have BP problems, multi-grain bread is very high in sodium compared to other breads. Would there be an alternative?Umm Frank,I think the purveyors of these very questionable “cleansing” products are the people out to relieve you of your money.Lois,Are you off your meds?   First Big Pharma conspiracy theories and now the God delusion.  What is next … alien infiltration?Frank,
You and Lois deserve each other.  Ps. Why do you shout so much?  Large caps aren’t needed.I take Chinese herbal formulas, vitamins, thyroid, minerals, Evening Primrose.  On occasion go to acupuncture.A TIP:   be sure and stay hydrated!  As we age, we have a tendency to slow down on water intake.  Since my stroke in 2009, I have swallowing problems.Because of my age, I take these things.  I’ve never smoked, don’t drink. BUT, don’t exercise.I DO NOT like the AMA/pharmaceuticals….they are evil.  Only do I accept emergency efforts.STRESS is beind all disease.  Emotions play a BIG part in health.your using caps.lois i have been trying to find you for a few months and could not remember where we met but some comediene thought they would be smart and say we deserve each other and thats how i found you again, i was due to go next wednesday to have gallbladder removed and said i had a cold and pretended to sneeze. can you please tell me why you regret having yours taken out. thanks lois glad iv found you again.I regret having my gallbladder out, because the gallbladder is the helper to the liver.  When the gallbladder is taken out, it puts more pressure on the liver to cleanse.
Since my gallbladder removal, I have loads of mucous coming up from the eyes, my scalp has more mucous, stressful mucous.  My descending energy is slowing because of the gallbladder removal, reversing to the ascending energy of the body.
Our bodies have ascending and descending energies.  The kidney, liver, digestive system (spleen, pancreas, stomach) are our descending energy organ systems.  The heart, and lungs are our ascending energy.  If our descending organs are compromised/removed, the ascending systems take over.  Mucous is of the lung system.  The skin is our third lung.
The HELPERS to our systems are:
Kidney  –  urinary system
Liver –  gallbladder
Heart system –  small intestine
Spleen/pancreas (digestive) –  stomach
Lung –  large intestine
Our bodies were beautifully designed, but with the tainted food of today, stress of today, life is more of a challenge.
Remember behind ALL diseases today, there is/has been STRESS.  The emotion of stress is in the LIVER.
The emotions of the systems are:
Kidney  –   fear
Liver –  anxiety, anger
Heart –  joy and sorrow
Spleen/pancreas –  worry/sympathy
Lung –  grief/depression
BOTTOM LINE, try to dissolve your gallstones naturally.  If stones are your worry, go to an acupuncturist/herbologist, tell him your worries.  First you have to find out how large your stones are.  Stones are calcium carbonate.
I had my gallbladder out because my husband/family hated to see me suffer with the stones, and pain on occasion.  I’m SORRY I didn’t listen to myself.  What is so bad I know better, just wanted the quick fix, BUT with health there is no “quick” fix.  Getting well, the body takes time.
For our future generations, I hope they can learn….eat right, and keep the faith/learn God’s Word.
ALSO, I hope our future generations, A BIGGIE,  is try to STAY AWAY from the AMA/pharmaceutical industries EXCEPT for emergencies…i.e. broken bones, burns, etc..
I wish you well!HI LOIS. MY GALLSTONE, I ONLY HAVE ONE IS 24ML ABOUT AND INCH AND A HALF. IM SCARED TO TRY AND MELT IT DOWN IN CASE IT GETS STUCK IN BILE DUCT,  I KNOW WHAT YOU MEAN ABOUT PHARMACEUTICAL COMPANIES, AND WHO OWN THEM. ITS THE SAME PEOPLE WHO OWN THE MEDIA AND THE FOOD AND MEDICINE. WE ARE ALSO GETTING SPRAYED BY CHEMTRAILS. YOU CAN SEE THEN IN THE SKY. THEY ARE NOT CLOUDS BUT LINES OF BARIUM AND LUMINUM AND SOMETHING ELSE.SO THAT IS AFFECTING OUR BREATHING, HAVE YOU WATCHED AGENDA 21 ON U TUBE? ITS VERY INTERESTING ABOUT THIS NEW WORLD ORDER. AND THE ZIONIST AGENDA. I STAY VERY CLOSE TO GOD.
I ALSO AM AWARE OF WHAT IS GOING ON IN THIS WORLD AND WHAT IS COMING NEXT
I AM ON MY OWN AND NO ONE SEES MY PAIN I HAVE NO ONE TO HELP ME WHEN IM ILL. I HAVE SUFFERED ALMOST DAILY SINCE JULY 2015 AND I HAD AN INFECTION AS WELL WHEN THEY DID A LFT AND THE WHITE BLOOD CELLS WERE RAISED.I CANT REALLY IMAGINE BEING WORSE OFF.IM ON STRONG PAIN KILLERS. OH LOIS IV STARTED TAKING BLACK SEED OIL. YOU COULD TRY AND READ ABOUT THAT IS YOU WANT. ITS HELPED SOME THINGS I HAD AND ALSO IM SOMETIMES DRINKING APPLE CIDER VINEGAR. IM SORRY TO HEAR THAT YOU REGRET YOU GALLBLADDER REMOVAL. BUT I THINK I WILL REGRET IT IF I DONT HAVE IT DONE AS THE WAY THE WORLD IS GOING THERE IS GOING TO BE NO NATIONAL HEALTH SERVICE I CAN JUST SEE IT. IM SO GLAD I HAVE FOUND YOU AS I HAVE BEEN LOOKING THROUGH ALL MY HISTORY AND COULD NOT FIND YOU AT ALL. BUT SMARTY PANTS HELPED ME. LOL. THANKS FOR ALL THE GREAT INFORMATION YOU HAVE GIVEN ME ON CHINESE MEDICINE.I WILL SPEAK SOON AND LET YOU KNOW HOW I GET ON, GOD BLESS YOU DEAR LOIS?❤️WHAT DO YOU DESERVE?you hit the nail on the head. that the next thing. but its not aliens its demonsPingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()IS THAAAT RIGHT.lois iv since found out that im b positive.anna thanks for your kind tip about the vitamix i’v not got round to looking into it as i lost this site and could not find it anywhere in my history as i clear it a lot.but someone left a bit of a nasty message saying me and lois deserve each other. so i book marked it and i’v found lois again, i have a juicer i forget what its called as its in a cupboard somewhere and it cost me £350 i dont know what that is in dollars. its meant to be the best one on the market. i could not keep up cleaning it. i got so fed up as there as lots of peices to it. its some kind of slow juicer. thanks anyway anna, god bless you for thinking of me, thats very kind,❤️how did you know??? your spot ondaveletsgo….
Yes, we are of the flesh, which will be turned to dust.  God created us masterfully, of flesh, bones, blood, created into a wonderful machine, given a designed lifespan.  We are of mind/body/SPIRIT.  We can’t separate them.  We hold a spirit of which we should be obedient to God.  But in today’s world, many of the flesh have forgotten and are following that of satan. God gave us the Word, instructions to help us live a better life.  We are to be obedient.  He gave us health laws, marriage/relationship, interaction with other laws…this is only the beginning of the instructions.  He also gave us warnings, what to beware of, to heed the warnings.  Beware of the New World Order/or the Beast.  We can see it now happening in the world.Excellent breadsI highly recommend you take your brother to acupuncture.  Your acupuncturist/herbalist will help.From my “Eat Right for (4) Your Type” by Dr. Peter D’Adamo, here is a short synopsis on Type B Diet
TYPE O and TYPE A seem to be polar opposites in many respects.  But, Type B can best be described as idiosyncratic – with utterly unique and sometimes chemeleonlike characteristics.  In many respects, Type B resembles Type O so much that the two seem related.  Then, suddenly, Type B will take on a totally unfamiliar shape – one that is peculiarly its own.  You might say that Type B represents a sophisticated refinement in the evolutionary journey, an effort to join together divergent peoples and cultures.
On the whole, the sturdy and alert Type Bs are usually able to resist many of the most severe diseases common to modern life, such as heart disease and cancer.  Even when they do contract these diseases, they are more likely to survive them. Yet because Type B’s are somewhat offbeat, their systems seem more prone to exotic immune-system disorders, such as multiple sclerosis, lupus, and chronic fatigue syndrome.
In my experience, a Type B who carefully follows the recommended diet can often bypass severe disease and live a long and healthy life.
The Type B Diet is balanced and wholesome, including a wide variety of foods.  In the words of my father, it represents “the best of the animal and vegetable kingdoms.”  Think of B as standing for balance — the balancing forces of A and O.
*******************
I have a friend who is Type B.  When she moved away, I told her of this book “Eat Right for (4) Your Type”, and a few of the foods that were not good for her.  She had Lupus.  She told me all the foods I mentioned were foods she had eaten all her life.  She told me her mother and sister both passed from Lupus.  I recommended she get the book.  It tells of the disorders each blood type may get, but need not.  Tells of personality, and more.
The book tells of the blood types, amounts of food daily, according to blood types, and  ethnicity.  They have a book with all four of the blood types, and now I believe single blood types.  The book is well worth buying.
I wish you well!  God bless!lois thanks for that. im not well today again. gallbladder. what a life eh? got to keep the faith. its hard. but its the only way. ?Life can be tough!  Keep the faith, and please go to acupuncturist to dissolve stones.  I told my doctor I didn’t like taking out organs, it weakens the body, and he said the body will compensate.  I say it just weakens us!   He also told me, it’s people like me that keeps him in business.  Again, I’m sorry I had my gallbladder removed, if only I had listened to my instincts.
I wish you well!lois what about my  diseased gallbladder they say its not functioning properly.Health is individual, but if I had to do it over again, I would have continued with my acupuncturist with my gallbladder problems.  But, I should have listened to my instincts, said no to surgery.  I guess alot depends on the size of the stones.  Try to dissolve or have them zapped.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()It would be great to have such a clinic. I knew of a man who was dying of liver failure. He went to a clinic in Arizona, for 6 months, and came home, cured of liver cancer. He told me that what was purged from his body, in the detox, was so YUK, but he looked, AWESOME, upon his return. Right now, I am so sick, and I know, my own liver is- very unhealthy. I have read what to eat and do, and am going to get good herbs, and, eat, only what I have read of. I do not want to take man made,- stuff- pills and such, and not know what all was put into it, as off ball fillers .I am planning a small organic herb garden, and get my body- detoxed! I feel so awful right now, can not eat without adding more to my misery. Would be nice to find a B&B that would serve only good things for the liver and body.NO JUNK! A nice place out in the countryside, or, close to a seashore .A nice juice bar, with soft, soothing  music . I just got a idea, we are remodeling a home, to call our own, and, in a spare room, off from the kitchen, I am going to- create a juice bar/lounge, to relax and sip a good detox, on going! It is in a rural area, plenty of wildlife to enjoy watching. I have never detoxed. Glad that I found this site!I know of a good gentleman who is a herb specialist, and he said cancer is a virus. He actually- cured patients of doctors at a local hospital, by working with them, in finding- cures.
He is a good Christian man. He is really against chemo.Hey, God is the light, and man has done MUCH to destroy the body, and this earth. Polluting  oceans and waterways. God gave us natural herbs to cleanse ourselves, and throughout our lives, we have been polluted, by to many things, bad for us. We need to get ourselves into healthy order, it is what God expected of us, right. He gave us the necessary, and I am sick right now, myself. Never did for my health, what God gave me, to keep from getting how I am, now, but I am going to get it right, and pray for his help. You hang in there! You have the inner spirit that God gave you, and it will see you through, and never let go of God’s hand! He sends angels to watch over us. I was told that we each, had one assigned to us. I was in a fight for my life, once, and my mother lost her life, in that battle, I knew I could not save her, but when I called out to God, right then and there, he took her home with him. I saw -someone- immediately stand by her bed- and I was SCARED STIFF! at that sight! God hears our prayers. That happened in a hospital room, with a evil nurse, attending. God, heard my prayer, and I had to give my mom up, but he made that bad thing, into a blessing for me. Her death, saw God to pass a strength to me, from her, 10 fold . She, won! the fight, after all !  People think I am nuts for telling of this truth, but if they truly, know God, they know, nothing is beyond his reach.THINK LONG AND HARD before you decide on surgery. I let a doc SCARE ME into surgery and it has been the worst mistake! NOW, my poor liver is having a hard time, so,  I am SO SICK!, I am going to detox it and eat only good things for my body. hope you feel betterME TOO LOIS! I am so upset that I let that doc pressure me into putting money into his pocket, by removing my G. Bladder! I am suffering for it. I have to find ways to ease the stress that my body is going through. Detoxing, and eating only good things. To many chemicals in most all food. I am going to grow my own organic green house,  garden. I will know what the soil, is, and no chemicals, or- ants! or moles! Am going to grow peppermint, to keep the bugs away! Good for tea. too!Having your own garden is a good idea!  My husband grows tomatoes, only, for us, as we haven’t any more room, due to an inground pool.   We do have nice farmers markets around here, nice produce, but there is nothing like growing your own garden. I, like you, am suffering from the removal of the gallbladder.   I am SO SORRY I had it removed.   I wish you well, and good success with your garden.I agree with your gentleman friend.  My thought is chemo is poison  God gave us the whole herbs to heal ourselves, for they are a whole food.  In today’s world, our food has been changed, the food extracted of nutrients our body needs to survive. Ask yourself, who has the most to benefit from poor food?   The food, medical, and pharmacy industries.  My thought is doctors, because of the way they were trained, are nothing more than licensed “drug pushers”.I was up last night looking at all sorts of things to -PLANT!I know that I can not digest my food, properly, NOW, and I have to figure out WAYS to – not suffer, as I am, now .It is said to be careful- what you ask God for, SO, I have been trying to have the stamina- to NOT,EAT, the things that I should not, and NOT DRINK, sweet tea! SO, as of yesterday, I am not interested in- eating, anything! Not even a slice of birthday cake that I made for my George. HE, was even amazed at this, and sees, that I am really, sick and suffering. I do feel a bit better ,today, so, cleaning out my systems, must be of a good start. I also had a long talk with God last night, that man had dealt all of us, a bad hand, in all of the pollutants that we have ingested, throughout our lives, and that I really needed HIS HELP, because he was the only one who truly knew how to -FIX ME .SO, I am on my way to losing weight, due to fluid retention, probably caused, by -YUKY build up throughout my body! I am going to eat things that I have read about, NEW, things that I have never tried. I even asked,  Jesus- ” HOW- did MARY fix the things that they all, ate? Can you show me – what and how to ” ?He always, finds a way to answer, and his ways, we have no idea of, how, but I know I can depend on him .I never have paid attention to dandelion, in my yard, but I think it might be what my horse, Clarice, enjoys, when I let her come out with me. If it is, I will have to figure out HOW to make it- plentiful! I read that it is SO GOOD for the liver and cleansing it .I also read to make milk thistle tea.Can use stevia -leaf-powder .I also read NOT to put things in plastic containers, or, drink from them .I am a entrepreneur, and have been TRYING, for years, to get our country leaders, to put back into use, our -OLD RICE FIELDS.THEY have thought, me-NUTS!, for that idea.IF, our oceans are, SO POLUTED , maybe we should be looking at the old rice fields .I USED TO, LOVE rice, and maybe I can get back to it .For sure, we need ways to have- NON- polluted fish to eat .I live near Santee, SC and we have HUGE lake systems, so I am not certain if anyone has thought about heavily increasing the fish populations within it. MAYBE, I can use my UNIQUE green house variety garden, as a start for other things, when they see, everything,  that I will have, included, within it .My George has engineered a method for, easy planting and harvesting .I am so glad that I found this site.When I look, now, I can not find the blog site, that I first used, to reply to you ?Was it not from the Global Healing Center-site?The reply -points to Disgus Linda is- ME ! , and I am at mollyaway@yahoo.comPingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Hello Lois,
I read all your posts n this discussion and you seem to know a lot about health. May I ask you if you have any tips for healing the digestive system (gut flora).
My 6 year old was a very healthy child until one day she got a bee sting that became swollen a week later (delayed reaction). Doctor said she had MRSA and gave her a shot of
1000 mg (1gram) of Ceftrioxone (I read recently equivalent to 25-50 doses of amoxicillin). Turned out it was not MRSA, just a delayed reaction to bee sting.Also, Ceftrioxone was not the correct antibiotic for MRSA either.
Soon (2 weeks) after the ceftrioxone shot My then 3 year old became very hyperactive, emotional and ill prone.
Last year she had 3 ear infections and received 3 rounds of 3 different antibiotics and became allergic to all of them.
Recently she was diagnosed with gut dysbiosis (good gut flora gone and bad flora high).
You mentioned in one of your post that a distended belly was a sign of stomach problems-she has a distended belly.
I have bought several probiotics from naturopaths and healthfood stores but they just don’t seem to work. I have her on a very clean diet and that seems to lessen her symptoms but I wish I found a protocol to detox her and cure her gut. I pray everyday for wisdom so I would not make the same mistakes again and speak up for my daughter rather than trusting doctors blindly. Thank you very much for sharing your knowledge and wisdom !Sue,I wish your precious children well. My advice is keep your children away from drugs and doctors. No vaccines. No surgeries. There are natural ways to heal. Also, you might want to try acupuncture. My thought is the medical field is great for emergencies only , BUT NOT disease.
What are your childrens blood type?. Check out the book “Eat for (4) Your Type” by Dr. Peter D’Adamo . It tells what foods are good for each blood type… important . When my sons were 2 and 3 years old, I had them tested for allergies as they were congested alot. The allergist took a test, and both were allergic to the same things, they are Type O. It’s genetic. I checked the book, and every food they were not to eat, was in the book.
In my study on the Chinese Five-Element Theory , it says that when someone has a distended stomach, it is a sign of a congested/corrupted digestive system. Some of the disorders caused by this condition are ADD, ADHD, OCD, indecisiveness, apathy and more. The sweet taste can cause hyperactivity.
My suggestion is cut, on a daily basis, all sugared foods from your children’s diet. Because they disrupt the digestive system. Eat more vegetables, fruits, small amounts of meat (according to the blood type), some good grains (check blood type). Sugars come in many forms….pizza, pasta, pastries, cereals, breads, and lots more. It’s one thing to eat on an occasion, but not so good on a daily basis.
Try giving your children acidophilis , to bring back some of the good gut bacteria killed off by antibiotics. We all need healthy bacteria in our intestines. Also, check out digestive enzymes , give them according to their age, at meal time. Your local Trader Joe’s or health food stores will have some. Tell them they are for children. Also, check that they are “regular”. Think about it, if their digestive tract is clogged, it’s going to cause issues. Giving them some magnesium, helps greatly with that issue, remember children dosage. Make sure they are well hydrated .
Also, be aware of what your children are watching and listening. We are what we see and hear. You can’t separate the mind/body/spirit. Our emotions also determine our health. Last, but NOT least, is teach your children God’s Word for a healthy life. I wish you and your children well!God bless!Lois“Hello Lois, I read all your posts n this discussion and you seem to know a lot about health. May I ask you if you have any tips for healing the digestive system (gut flora). My 6 year old was a very healthy child until one day she got a bee sting that became swollen a week later (delayed reaction). Doctor said she had MRSA and gave her a shot of 1000 mg (1gram) of Ceftrioxone (I read recently equivalent to 25-50 doses of amoxicillin). Turned out it was not MRSA, just a delayed reaction to bee sting.Also, Ceftrioxone was not the correct antibiotic for MRSA either. Soon (2 weeks) after the ceftrioxone shot My then 3 year old became very hyperactive, emotional and ill prone. Last year she had 3 ear infections and received 3 rounds of 3 different antibiotics and became allergic to all of them. Recently she was diagnosed with gut dysbiosis (good gut flora gone and bad flora high). You mentioned in one of your post that a distended belly was a sign of stomach problems-she has a distended belly. I have bought several probiotics from naturopaths and healthfood stores but they just don’t seem to work. I have her on a very clean diet and that seems to lessen her symptoms but I wish I found a protocol to detox her and cure her gut. I pray everyday for wisdom so I would not make the same mistakes again and speak up for my daughter rather than trusting doctors blindly. Thank you very much for sharing your knowledge and wisdom !” SettingsA new comment was posted on Natural Health BlogSueHello Lois,
I read all your posts n this discussion and you seem to know a lot about health. May I ask you if you have any tips for healing the digestive system (gut flora). My 6 year old was a very healthy child until one day she got a bee sting that became swollen a week later (delayed reaction). Doctor said she had MRSA and gave her a shot of 1000 mg (1gram) of Ceftrioxone (I read recently equivalent to 25-50 doses of amoxicillin). Turned out it was not MRSA, just a delayed reaction to bee sting.Also, Ceftrioxone was not the correct antibiotic for MRSA either. Soon (2 weeks) after the ceftrioxone shot My then 3 year old became very hyperactive, emotional and ill prone. Last year she had 3 ear infections and received 3 rounds of 3 different antibi otics and became allergic to all of them. Recently she was diagnosed with gut dysbiosis (good gut flora gone and bad flora high). You mentioned in one of your post that a distended belly was a sign of stomach problems-she has a distended belly. I have bought several probiotics from naturopaths and healthfood stores but they just don’t seem to work. I have her on a very clean diet and that seems to lessen her symptoms but I wish I found a protocol to detox her and cure her gut. I pray everyday for wisdom so I would not make the same mistakes again and speak up for my daughter rather than trusting doctors blindly. Thank you very much for sharing your knowledge and wisdom !
5:56 p.m., Thursday April 14 | Other comments by Sue
Reply to Sue
Sue’s comment is in reply to lois :Yes….Intermittent fasting is excellentRead morePingback: ()Hi Sue, I highly suggest you join the Facebook group, The Gut Health Protocol. It is based on the book of the same name by John Herron and he is also one of the Admins of the group. It is an informed, well researched protocol based on science. He suffered for many years from leaky gut and SIBO and such. He does not sell any kind of supplements. His book is promoted on the website as a guide, but he is not pushing anything except gut health. He has helped thousands of people on that site. You can find out what tests Naturopaths or even conventional doctors need to be performing on your child. Not hocus pocus throw everything natural at the problem on the planet and hope something sticks. Testing needs to be done. Specific testing. Methane, breath tests, stool tests. Please look it up. If you do not do Facebook his book can be purchased from Amazon. Good luck!Pingback: ()I love my garden. I find it very relaxing and good exercise. Lois try planting inside the fence area of your pool, if you have a fence, otherwise use some wine barrels or large pots. I have a garden area but my potted veggies seem to always produce well.Dan, we have a fence around an area off the pool.  We had to to save our vegetables, because we had dogs, but  they’ve passed away.  We miss them.Barrels are a good idea.  My daughter grows alot of vegetables in barrels, and pots. Keep up the good work with your garden.  Nothing like home grown foods.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()10/29/2015 8:02:37 PM
I’ve had Hiv virus problem over 4 years. I tried everything, of course I went to the doctor. about a hundred times, and though about my Family, I know my Family will face a serious problem when I’m gone, I lost hope and I wept all day, but one day I was surfing the internet I found Dr.boadi contact number. I called him and he guided me. I asked him for solutions and he started the remedies for my health. Thank God, now everything is fine, I’m cured by Dr. boadi herbal medicine, I’m very thankful to Dr. boadi and very happy with my hubby and family.his email  or contact his hot line:+2348062411614 so any type of disease HIV/AIDS,CANCER, ALS, Hepatitis C, PCV.. HERPES,through his via email;boadiherbalclinic@gmail.comIDIOTthank you for speaking out.  I am also a psychiatric survivor and the drugs destroyed my health, I had health problems that were and are probably the cause of my ‘mental issues’, so now I am off the drugs and working to restore my health.  Is there anything someone can do to avoid or detox from the chemtrails?Check out Dr. Richaird Schulze at: herbdoc dot comPingback: ()Pingback: ()I would like to know if you have any products that would help with cirrhosis of the liver? Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Lois – Go to Target and get a $2:00 Icepack . Put it in the freezer and place it on your liver (2 fingers down your rib cage on the right hand side )  for 15 mins morning and evening and put it on your kidneys (which are lower back side above your butt ) for 15 mins and tell me if you see any change.  Also, if you have some time buy a bucket and fill it with ice and put your right leg in the water and relax and think good thoughts (meditate) .Thank you for the information.  I’ll try.  From my understanding my liver is in BAD shape..I imagine from stress, as I’m a worrier, an emotion of the diabetic  I’m not a drinker which most people think when one has liver problems, but it’s not the case.  I might have a glass of wine once a year.God bless!Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Braggs apple cider vinegar. Just read to take 2 T vinegar with 2 ounces concentrated pure unsweetened pomegranate juice..mix in 8 oz water. Drink 2 glasses of this mixture a day for liver,  weightloss and pain relief from arthritis. Ox Bile Tablets with Every meal greatly help digestive issues after gallbladder removal.Garden, I am going to try this..what’s the theory behind it?lois i wanted to send you a message i’v been in and out of hospital with stones stuck in bile duct. got mirizzis syndrome had a 5 hour operation and bile duct reconstruction so had to get my shrunken gall bladder out. 6 weeks ago. i feel so much better.Frank Tonner,  I wish you to feel, be well.  Eat well, stay hydrated with water, with some lemon!  Another tip….try to avoid coffee.  God bless!god bless you dear lois. ❤️Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()drinking one or two sugar free free cup,s of strong coffee is good for the liver tooPingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()hi Sue,
please check this idea, contact Dr. Fadi. All the best for you daughter.
JosephPingback: ()Pingback: ()Delet[image: GlobalHealingCenter] *Ben Nettleton *| Web Editor | Social Media*t:* (713) 476-0016 x220  *w:* globalhealingcenter.comGet Healthy. Stay Healthy.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()dear sir
             I am suffering from hepetities B last 4 years and i am filling left side havy and gas problem I am takeing homoeopathik medicin what i have to do please show mi righ wayIt gets me so wound up hearing people go on about liver cleanses. I suffer from a condition known as PSC and believe me if you have any toxins built up in your liver or blockages, you will know about it. You will either be very sick, look very sick or be in substantial pain.Your body is constantly ‘detoxing’, that is what your liver and kidneys are for. By all means eat healthy, that’s great and will aid your body’s natural processes but please don’t tell people they have blockages or can ‘clease’ a build up of toxins. I had to have a needle threaded into the ducts of my liver to open up a blockage brought about by my condition. I was very unwell before and the procedure itself was very very unpleasant.In the same way you cannot cleanse your colon from a colon cleanse. You can potentially do a lot more harm than good. There is no build up over years and years. Before colonoscopies patients are prescribed medication to what’s in there – it’s so they can see better, not to ‘cleanse’,Eat healthy, exercise and stop spreading pseudoscientific advice. Please.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()I kind of like “dust”.  Tickled us.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Agreed. We continue to learn new information about how the human body works, new studies are completed, and we receive updated data.It’s best to be open-minded and willing to accept changes and new information, or we will be left behind. This is crucial for individuals who attend medical school.If we personally have never heard about something, does that mean it doesn’t exist? Or does it mean we’ve never heard about it? There is a difference.Bottom line #2: Do your complete research and make your own informed, knowledgeable decision.We continue to learn new information about how the human body works, new studies are completed, and we receive updated data.It’s best to be open-minded and willing to accept changes and new information, or we will be left behind. This is crucial for individuals who attend medical school.If we personally have never heard about something, does that mean it doesn’t exist? Or does it mean we’ve never heard about it? There is a difference.Bottom line #2: Do your complete research and make your own informed, knowledgeable decision.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()alcohol is the main reason for damaging your liver in a fit person, so just stay awayPingback: ()This is BUNK. Furthermore, it is potentially dangerous, if not deadly for those dealing with a failing liver. There is no scientific evidence that any kind of “cleanse” is beneficial. It is impossible to Cleanse the liver. Grapefruit contains enzymes that are potential dangerous for those taking multiple medications. The only thing that might be helpful for those dealing with HE (hepatic encephalopathy) is a reduction in the consumption of animal proteins, sugars and salt.DangerousPingback: ()Pingback: ()Technically Korean food has good ingredients to improve your liver.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()fasting is good to because overeating is not good for the liver…Pingback: ()Does bentonite clay and psyllium help? Anyone try it?Antibiotics are a two edge sword. They help
and hurt. They save and kill.Hi I would try adding Braggs apple cider vinegar to her water. I hope she is not eating any dairy or even animal product. If her gut is not healthy it may be hard to digest. Also take a look at ayerivada cooking, I hope I spelled that right. I hope this helps, oh and of course no sugars even from bread pastas grain. I’m sorry I must be confusing you. It’s almost like doing a vegatrian paleo diet. Interesting, can you explain why.I would like to understand your point of view.
ThanksWater fasts helpWhere is the scientific proof that these foods will cleanse the liver?
By what metabolic mechanism does the cleansing occur?
Where are your references?I would add Dandelion to that listPingback: ()How did it go?Hello! I am fighting allergies, and I find that taking WELL MADE herbal teas, and – supplements, work best for me ! We have a market – Earth Fare, and it has a department dedicated to natural, organic teas; vitamins, and such.Things have been HECTIC in getting our home into order, and I am still- working on ‘my private space ‘ – within it , and progress is moving forward.Flea markets have been great!- for decorating it,toward MY OWN version of – relaxing atmosphere. A small but lengthly space, I have called, ‘mine’ .I am here right now, drinking a nice herbal tea, to help with the allergies. Pollen is heavy, and hay dust, I am going to wear a mask, from now on .I think detoxing is a good idea, and so is- growing your own veggies. My neighbor is from W, Virginia, and is AWESOME with growing so many things, always with enough to share . He has a unique way of processing meat items, much of which is hunted by him, so no man made junk within it . He marinates meat for 3 days in constant iced water, then puts it into jars . I am getting a few meat bird chickens to raise, so he can teach me the process. Of course, there are other curing processes, that can be used, and I am all for that. as well . I am thinking of recording his ways of doing, so that I can then, write down the processes .We are very fortunate to have places as Earth Fare, and-  we should seek out Native American Medicine men and women, as their ancestors were friends of the forests, and knew, what was good for all seasons, and, ailments .  There are good ways to detox to have better health, I am going to seek out as much as I can! It is good to have sites that people can share what they have found, helpful . Pingback: ()Strawberrytart – my friend made a miracle recovery.
He was taken off of all foods and put on a special diet, to purge his body of toxins . We all should do this, but it is not so easy, with people eating things that you, LOVE!, and doing this ALL around you. I am really thinking of speaking to my Dr.- to see if he would go along with me, and create a lodge, that would accommodate -special diets for those of us with NEED FOR SUCH!
I live near HUGE lake systems, and swimming is such a good exercise, as is dancing/yoga, and, self defense work-outs . Mediation works good, too .
Everything in thinking of these possibilities, to me, IS, SO EXCITING! AND- GOD IS SO- UPLIFTING!
If my friend found success and life to go on for him, so can many others!Pingback: ()Pingback: ()I have a gallstone. I don’t think I have a choice in having my gall bladder removed, would I?Yes you do.There are alternatives that need t be considered. I wish that I had been told of these. Your gall bladder is important, VERY, PLEASE look into other things that you can do.If you have someone near you that practices in Eastern  Medicine. go see them. There are herbs that can also be used .Pingback: ()Pingback: ()I’ve never even thought about doing a liver cleanse!Pingback: ()So much for you repeating the obvious.Pingback: ()Just a small amount of this pungent white bulb has the ability to activate liver enzymes that help your body flush out toxins.[1] Garlic also holds high amounts of allicin and selenium, two natural compounds that aid in liver cleansing.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Nothing happened on September 23rd. Scripture is our compass, the rest is going to pass away. Chemtrail is arsenic, aluminum and much poisonous ingredients, but we serve a mighty God who keeps us in perfect peace if his mind is stayed on Him. Take care of yourself while staying busy about Kingdom work! Jesus will soon return…Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()I agree with you on the alien infiltration. The alien is you.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Can I still do the liver cleanse if I’ve had my gall bladder removed?Pingback: ()Hi, Karen. Yes, most people without a gallbladder can still
perform our liver cleanse, and no modifications are necessary. Ideally, the
cleanse will be more beneficial since the gallbladder is no longer
available to help the liver breakdown fats and eliminate toxins. Here
you can review our complete protocol: .Pingback: ()Yeah, I agree with your point, but my friend suffering from jaundice and I think it’s cause of dirty water.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Very good article, a lot of valuable knowledge.Pingback: ()They rob your body of good bacteria and open it up to a host of diseases. There are also some vitamins that you should be taking, but, if you are on high doses of antibiotics, they cancel their effects out.Fasting is not a good thing for everyone. There are certain vitamins and minerals that fasting gets rid of that can harm some people. I don’t have a thyroid. If I fasted, I could not do anything, because my body depends on good vitamin and mineral intake. I could not get through my day. Not everything is for everyone.Health is individual, but periodical fasting can do no harm.  Long periods of fasting need to be monitored.  I have tried one or two days a week fasting, I felt good afterwards.  I do it periodically.They had fasting hospitals in Biblical days.  I say if we ate according to God’s Word, we’d be so much better off.The problem is our food has been tainted, demineralized, devitaminized therefore made to be dependent on the medical community.  This was planned is my thought.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()