        I’ve been on an organic juice fast for the last 15 days.  During this time I’ve been consuming 4-8 juices each day and have been using a Norwalk Hydraulic Press Juicer to make them.  I must say that even though I consider myself heathy, I feel great and have the energy I had when I was 15.  If you’ve never performed an organic fruit and vegetable juice fast and experienced the physical and mental cleansing it provides, I highly recommend you try it.  This is a detoxification process nearly everyone should bless their body with on a regular basis.  Although any juicer is better than no juicer at all, I also need to make mention of how great the Norwalk Hydraulic Press Juicer works. I’m not affiliated with their company, it doesn’t matter to me how many they sell, but if you want my recommendation for the best juice machine in the world, the  is hands down the best.    The fruits and vegetables I’ve been juicing have been provided by a local co-op called Rawfully Organic. Rawfully Organic provides amazing organic fruit and vegetable shares and is the brainchild of my good friend, Kristina Carrillo-Bucaram.  Kristina started Rawfully Organic with the mission of supplying organic produce to the Texas community wishing to live a raw, vegetarian, or vegan lifestyle. She’s grown the organization, which is 100% volunteer operated, to serve over 6,000 families in the Houston area. If you’re in the area, I highly recommend them!    Kristina just shared an awesome juice recipe with me that I can’t wait to try. It’s called “My Secret SoulShine Juice” and helps make your skin glow, your spirit happy, and your belly flat.  Watch this video as Kristina describes the benefits of this wonder drink and demonstrates how to make it.    You can learn more about the Rawfully Organic Co-op at .  
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.