Turmeric, also known as , is an ancient spice that has remained popular in India and Asia since 2,000 BC. The spice belongs to the  family and is a prized component of the culinary traditions of these cultures. Turmeric imparts a vibrant yellowish hue to curry dishes, and the spice is used as a natural dyeing agent for cloth.Curcuminoids are the main phytochemicals that give turmeric its most impressive and wide-ranging health benefits. Amazingly, over 9,000 medical and clinical research studies have evaluated turmeric and  and yielded a wealth of positive information.There are three main phytochemicals in the curcuminoid family that are responsible for turmeric’s health benefits: diferuloylmethane (or curcumin, the primary curcuminoid responsible for turmeric’s vibrant yellowish color), demethoxycurcumin, and bisdemethoxycurcumin. In addition to these three chemicals, turmerone is a potent volatile oil found in the root.Research has shown that these curcuminoids communicate with 160 mechanisms and pathways in the body to support a wide range of processes, including brain health, cardiovascular health, tissue health, and more.Turmeric provides an abundance of  capable of supporting cellular health, but what does that mean for you? Here are some of the most well-researched benefits of turmeric.A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study published in the  reported noticeable and promising results with turmeric for supporting a balanced mood. Two groups were studied. The first group received curcumin daily, while the other received placebo. After eight weeks, the mood and  score tests completed by all of the participants showed significant symptom improvements compared to placebo. Could turmeric be a potential new option for stabilizing mood?Cut your finger? A study in the Sept 2014 issue of Life Sciences found that the curcumin in turmeric offers beneficial properties that appear to accelerate the wound healing process by soothing irritation and oxidation. As more research evaluates turmeric’s ability to support the body’s natural healing abilities, the breadth of applications could be enormous.An exciting study in the October 2006 issue of  demonstrated the efficacy of a topical turmeric application for wounds in rats. The results showed that turmeric supported collagen synthesis rates, improved wound contraction, and increased tissue strength and cell proliferation around the wound. Turmeric also showed antioxidant properties that helped the healing process.An impressive study completed and published in the March 2014 issue of the  examined the effect of turmeric on knee discomfort. Results showed that turmeric experienced relief on par with more conventional options. The turmeric group, however, seemed to enjoy more relief from joint stiffness. Those taking turmeric reported significantly fewer side effects than those following mainstream-oriented action plans. A double-blind, placebo-controlled study in the December 2011 issue of  looked at turmeric supplementation on postoperative discomfort and fatigue. Patients taking turmeric experienced significantly less discomfort compared to placebo.A novel investigative study published in the Nov 2014 issue of the  looked at the effects of curcumin on insulin-producing cells within the pancreas called Beta cells (or B-cells) and Islet cells, in relation to . Researchers addressed B-cell lines and human Islet cells with preparations of turmeric and observed positive benefits.Turmeric is valuable in helping soothe excess irritation. The swelling response is a healthy and natural mechanism the body uses to usher soothing compounds during times of crises or repair. It’s believed that most people in today’s toxic, stress-laden environment are under constant pressure and the tissue in their body is irritated, red, and swollen as a result. A review published in the 2007 issue of Advances of Experimental Medicine noted the soothing effect of turmeric is likely exerted through its ability to inhibit enzymes that irritate tissue.A randomized, pilot clinical study published in the November 2012 issue of  set out to determine the effectiveness of turmeric for active joint discomfort. One group received the standard-of-care medication while the other received turmeric. Patients were given symptom score sheets to assess results. Turmeric outperformed the other option on all levels and was relatively free of adverse side effects.Turmeric’s ability to encourage normal lipid profiles has been hypothesized and studied since the 1990s with varying levels of benefits. Some studies show an impressive reduction in lipid profiles for turmeric-supplemented groups. One randomized, single-blind clinical study published in the November 2011 issue of  investigated turmeric’s effect on lipid levels. Group participants were given either curcumin from turmeric in small or large servings; a control group was given  only. After just seven days, the results proved statistically significant. Small servings of turmeric produced the most favorable and balancing effects on lipid profiles.The results of a seven-day trial showed the curcumin-supplemented participants had better lipid profile numbers. Most importantly, these studies show that turmeric is consistently safe and has very low risk of side effect.India has long used turmeric in curry dishes as a taste and color enhancer. One reason for its longstanding popularity is because of its soothing properties on digestion. Researchers tested the protective effects of turmeric on the lining of the stomach against acidic preparations used to induce stomach ulcers. A preparation containing turmeric essential oils was administered before the ethanol and it was observed that turmeric protected the cells in the stomach and damage was reduced. In addition, turmeric also appears to offer some impressive protection for stomach ailments.There are a lot of turmeric supplements on the market; some better than others. Only purchase organic products from reputable companies. Because turmeric is so popular, there are many low-quality products produced under questionable circumstances. If you’re in the market for a turmeric supplement, we recently released a . I’m really proud of it and the feedback has been incredible.I’d like to hear from people who’ve supplemented with turmeric. How has it affected your life? Leave a comment below and share your experience.
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.What would be a typical daily amount of turmeric ingested to achieve beneficial, measurable effects on general health? Anyone?I understand that there is a pill form for Yes, there is. You can get it on Amazon.I’ve been using Turmeric for about 2 years. I had pain in my knee and this stuff really works. I take 1 500mg tablet  daily and I would not go with out it. I purchase it at Walmart for about $5 or $6 dollars.90capsules. It also works well for arthritis.Been Taking Turmeric now for 2 years and it does seem to help with inflammation soreness in my fingers, I started taking 1000 MG because i heard it was a cancer protecting agent & have been on it sinceThis is great information!  Using turmeric for inflammation, aches and pains really appeals to me. I am just beginning to get those inflammation issues that we sometimes get as we age. Adding a turmeric supplement and more turmeric into my diet every day has helped to significantly reduce inflammation in my hands and fingers. I’ll admit, I had a hard time believing that turmeric’s anti-inflammatory benefits were more than just hype. But one I began taking it, it was amazing how quickly it started to change how I felt.  Know I am telling everyone I know that turmeric is one of the best natural anti-inflammatories available to us.Has helped me so much with psorasis. That and a anti-inflammatory diet. Wow! My skin is healing! Try it! I have arthritis in my knees, hands, & fingers and nothing has helped the pain. I started taking Tart Cherry with Turmeric (also has some ginger, cayenne pepper & quercertin in it) a few months ago – the pain is probably 90% gone!! I LOVE this!!!Am interested in an answer to Dkshaw questionI’ve felt a big difference since I’ve used it I had high cholesterol and sugar and knee problems with inflammation after getting a shot of kenelog. But know I feel like a 100%better taking a natural supplement that’s organic powder turmeric AmenI have been supplementing with turmeric for the past 6 to 7 months for my IBS and aches and pains of menopause. But surprisingly it had a big effect on my cholesterol. My results were 7.3 in April and my last result was two weeks ago and went down to 5.9 almost mortal level which recommended to be at 5.5. And LDL went from 4.6 to 3.6 which almost to recommended level of 3.5. No matter what I will NEVER take statins! I am only taking 1 capsule a day which is really half the recommended dose. So pretty happy with that!I meant almost “normal” level. Oh dear ! Sorry for typo mistake!Is there something other than black pepper that can be used to help absorb tumeric/curcumin? I’m not supposed to eat black pepper. Not on my good food list. 🙂  Thank you.Does anyone have recipes? I’ve been making turmeric and ginger tea but I would rather EAT the rootsIt is also good for the prostate! my dad had to face strong prostate problems and He tried with different methods, turmeric helped him and he also takes a supplement named alpharise, it is really good and has no side effects because it is natural.1/2 to 1 & 1/2 teaspoonsI’m 79 and have been taking turmeric curcumin for the past 2 weeks for arthritis inflammation. I have noticed a huge improvement with regard to daily pain. My doctor did not want me to take it because it’s a blood thinner and I take Warfarin to thin my blood to avoid stroke. However, he agreed as long as my blood levels are closely monitored. So far, they have been just fine and I’m thrilled to find something that’s so beneficial in many ways.I just started making a tea, with fresh turmeric and ginger. Very excited to see the health benefits from an extended period of use. Going to have one cup in the morning afternoon, maybe post work out, one before bed. I’ll let you know my results! Hi Betty, I am very curious to know if you are still taking this Tart Cherry & turmeric suplement and how well is it still working for you? Are you taking this as a suplement and if so what is the exact name and such? Cheers Yes, I’ve been taking this supplement for over a year and it has relieved my arthritis pain better than anything else I have ever taken!! I also take MSM with it. I buy the products from Puritan’s Pride online.  If you decide to order it, the item number is 36213. Probably 95% of pain medications are bad for kidneys & everything else. This is from all good stuff. The ingredients are: turmeric extract, tart cherry extract, ginger extract, quercetin, cayenne pepper, black pepper extract.  Hope this helps you. If you want more information, please ask.  I purchase all my supplements from Puritan’s Pride – a wonderful company with awesome prices.Turmeric Power Smoothie Recipe
Turmeric and Ginger Root:
1 gram = approximately ¾’’ long x ½” wide (use a scale for exact weight)Blend
½ tsp ground peppercorns
½ tsp ground cinnamon
¼ tsp capersBlend the mixture with 4 oz of water
Sensitive stomach: gently boil mixture
Pour into a glass pitcher and then fill the pitcher with cold water
Stir in 4 oz of coconut water for an electrolyte boost
Stir in 1 tsp of chia seeds for fiber & essential fatty acidsCoconut oil helps Turmeric to be absorbed into the blood stream much faster then black pepper, i usually use both.I just read a woman in UK rid herself of blood cancer that conventional and stem cell therapies could not address… she took 2 teaspoons or 8 grams everyday and she is now cancer free…It took her about 8 months and it is 5 years later, she still takes it everyday and it is gone!It is very good with good oils like avocado or butter….I throw a “finger” of whole turmeric root as well as a “finger” of ginger root
 to my smoothies each morning.  Would this be enough to get the benefits?  Should I use powder instead?I do the same. Only the organic brand. I had stiff joints cause by gout and after a week, joints were loose again. I do a table spoon or 5 shakes.Our Dear Lord…BLESS Dr. Group! What an AWESOME Patriot! We love you Dr. Group!!! 🙂Hi, Donna. Thank you so much for your positive  feedback. It really means a lot to Dr. Group and our Team. Take care!