Vitamin E, also known as , is a fat-soluble vitamin that plays a significant role in human health. As an antioxidant, vitamin E helps maintain healthy cells and, subsequently, a healthy body. Vitamin E can also help with poor eyesight, gout, and arthritis. Today, we’ll look at key roles vitamin E plays within the body. When it comes to vitamins,  wrote the book—literally. That book is . Here’s what he has to say about vitamin E.  The specific levels of  relate to the content of  and  acids — our most essential fatty acids.Dr. Haas also explains this about the vitamin E content in certain foods:
If possible, it’s always best to get your vitamins from plant-based foods instead of supplements, which can be made from . Here are some of the best food sources of vitamin E.When it comes to health benefits, vitamin E is probably best known for its  properties. Antioxidants counteract free radicals  and . Oxidative stress can cause a host of serious health issues, including neurodegenerative disease. Antioxidants can help prevent and repair cell damage. Dr. Haas explains:

Following a diet heavy on fresh fruits and vegetables, plenty of water, and avoiding processed food and  will usually ensure you receive adequate antioxidants. For additional antioxidant support, I recommend plant-based supplements. Antioxidants are only one of the benefits that vitamin E has to offer. Let’s check out a few more ways this vitamin can support your health.Dr. Haas explains other uses for vitamin E:
Vitamin E also boasts topical benefits in skin care, and there are actually several vitamin E-based skin care product lines. Many are moisturizers and nourishing creams that help repair skin lesions, ulcers, and burns. Vitamin E can help heal or diminish scars caused by injury or surgery. And, according to Dr. Haas, that’s not all:
It also appears that vitamin E could help with shingles, eye complications, menstrual migraines, , muscular dystrophy, leg cramps, restless leg syndrome, and circulatory issues caused by diabetes. Vitamin E is not a cure-all miracle tonic, but it does play a significant role in maintaining good health.It seems the average American diet could use a bit more vitamin E. Here’s what Dr. Haas has to say about how much vitamin E we should be consuming:


Consult this chart for day-to-day, healthy vitamin E levels.If you have high blood pressure, you may want to avoid large servings of vitamin E as it can raise blood pressure. However, 400 IUs daily is typically not excessive. If you have high blood pressure and plan to start vitamin E supplementation, monitor your body and blood pressure. As always, consult your healthcare practitioner before starting any supplementation program.
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.