Coffee’s received a lot of good publicity in recent years for the way it appears to protect the brain from degenerative diseases. We know that coffee is full of antioxidants, vitamins, minerals, amino acids, plant-compounds, fats, and carbs. In small amounts, coffee can actually be beneficial for most healthy individuals. The main downside to coffee is that it’s highly acidic, and this acidity can have possible repercussions on the gut.      Before you drink your next cup of java, weekend latte, or morning cup of joe, here’s five facts to know about coffee’s effect on the gut.    Drink a lot of coffee first thing in the morning on a regular basis, and gut problems may be right around the corner. It’s not just the  that does this, so drinking decaf won’t avoid the danger. Caffeine and other plant-based compounds stimulate the stomach cells to release more hydrochloric acid, which can, at times, aid digestion.    But regular coffee drinking, especially in the morning on an empty stomach, reduces the amount of stomach acid available for digestion later on. H. pylori bacteria, the main bacteria responsible for , prefers highly acidic environments. Combine this with the way coffee weakens the protective barrier of the stomach – the mucosal layer — and the risk of damage and ulcers increases.    Drink enough coffee and you may experience  or heartburn. Coffee relaxes the esophageal sphincter—the gatekeeping muscle valve that allows food into the stomach and makes sure it stays there. Stomach acid that escapes irritates the tissue of the esophagus. If it happens frequently enough, complications like sores, ulcers, or permanent changes to cells in the esophagus can occur.  Coffee intensifies symptoms of bowel conditions like gastritis, irritable bowel disorder, colitis, and . Certain enzymes in coffee trigger an immune response that results in inflammation, , cramping, gas, and diarrhea.    Coffee’s known to encourage the stomach to release its contents into the small intestine before complete digestion has occurred. Food that doesn’t get fully digested often ends up sitting and rotting in the gut. This creates a toxic environment ideal for ‘bad’ bacteria to spread in the intestines, damages the intestinal wall, and leads to  and an immune response to enzymes in the coffee.    Nerve and brain cells rely on a neurochemical called GABA. It’s responsible for calming the nerves after they fire. The caffeine in coffee prevents GABA from doing its job and this may lead to overactive bowels. The most common symptom is cramping or an urge to go to the bathroom.    While it doesn’t directly harm the bowels, coffee does reduce the retention and absorption of minerals like magnesium, calcium, zinc, and iron. Here’s a basic rundown on these nutrients:    And you should not drink coffee if you have gallstones.  doesn’t cause gallstones, but it does cause the gallbladder to contract, creating a very painful situation. When it comes to coffee, the best way to know if harm’s being done is to notice how you feel. If it has a severe laxative effect or causes cramping or acid reflux, you may want to take some time off. Studies have shown the damage and irritation quickly heals once coffee consumption stops.    Are you a coffee lover? Or do you avoid the stuff like plague? Share your experience with us below.
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.This was very informative information. I was not aware of the effects of decaffeinated coffee. I’ve tried coffee alternatives like Pero but nothing can take the place of an original cup of joe. Moderation is key.I personally found a “LOW ACID” coffee produced and sold by a small company in Minnesota.  I performed the ph test on this coffee, which came out neutral, as compared to a popular local cafe’s coffee product.  The ph test on the popular local coffee was off the chart “ACID”.  I believe that if you can find a “low acid” coffee (which I did), you can help curb the negative condition in your gut produced by this acid.  I am not sure I can tout a product in this discussion, but will add it if it is allowed.this was very informative. I did know though about the acid level in coffee. I personally gave up caffeinated coffee a few years ago and only drink 2  coffee mugs of organic decaffeinated only and that is only after I eat breakfast. I have had stomach problems in the past where if I eat anything acidic on an empty stomach sends it into all kinds of spasms. I have had that under control for many years now. I do really enjoy this news letter.I can NOT believe this was just sent to me!! I have been having largospasams and went off coffee just yesterday and for the 1st night ever I didn’t have one!!!Thank you for the information.  This will be a challenge. Is there a right way to drink your coffee, even if using moderation.I now understand never to have on an empty stomach.
Plz advise.
Thanks again
YMR I drink 3 cups of coffee a day and have stomach pain for three years every morning about 6 o’clock in the morning goes away After a tums went to the grocery store four days ago and they didn’t have my regular cream so I Got fat free cream pain have gone a way.Hi, I was diagnosed with H Pylori as a child and over the years got addicted to drinking coffee and of course always suffering from a
painful stomach. Have since stopped drinking it everyday for about 10 years and when I do the symptoms start all over again.Thank you for this information, learned a few new things about coffee drinking.  I love coffee and have weighed the benefits vs the potential harm over the years. I have found that making my coffee with 9.5 pH alkaline water  significantly reduces the acidity of the coffee and actually improves the flavor (less bitter). I also only drink organic coffee because I believe the chemicals used to grow non-organic coffee are the worst health risk. I also drink it black. Years ago, I gave up coffee because it was upsetting my stomach and then I read something about the combination of coffee and dairy causing stomach issues. So I tried drinking coffee black, learned to like it, and never had stomach issues again. I also try to drink no more than 1 cup a day. Any more than that I believe puts too much stress on the adrenals.I used liver detox and I felt to be more freeI love my coffee, and have no difficulties with it, gut-wise. And I enjoy all of the proven benefits. I go for around 4 cups a day.What I have been doing lately, as a preventative measure is drinking “cold brewed” coffee. Simply put, soaking fresh ground beans overnight (12 hours)  to produce a concentrate, filtering it and putting it in the fridge.  To use, i just dilute it 2:1 (water to coffee concentrate). The “cold brewing” leaves a lot of the harmful acids in the grounds, and creates a much smoother, almost “sweet” flavor.  Exceptional as an iced coffee. For hot coffee, I just toss it in the microwave for a few minutes. Google “cold brew coffee recipe”. There are lots of recipes out there, but I use one cup of whole beans, ground coarse (it makes filtering easier – you can grind it fine, but its harder to get the sediment out.), and add 3 cups of water.  Overnight on the counter for 12 hours, and time to filter.
You can also do this with cold water and a French Press for smaller batches.Because of the reasons listed here as well as the fact that it contributes to weight gain by raising insulin and cortisol levels, I quit coffee a few months ago.  Now I’m able to fit in some of my clothes that were too tight before.This sounds great, I have to try it! I love coffee but I can’t drink it because it “burns” my stomach. Maybe this way I can tolerate it better.I usually don’t have too much a problem with it, as I only drink a 12 oz mug’s worth a day, if at all.  However, I’ve noticed an intense increase in cramping if I drink it right before my monthly is about to begin.  (Of course, I never realize this until AFTER the cramping has started.)  Any other time, it’s usually fine.  Yay for weird bodily functions!ADDENDUM:  I’ve found that the amount of crampage is GREATLY reduced when I make my own coffee – instant *or* brewed – than when I attempt to drink something someone else made.  I don’t know if I just make mine far weaker (I rarely ever use the same amount suggested by the bottle or box, and go for a little less), or if others make theirs far too strong (whether individuals or baristas), but generally I’ve found this to be the case.  I also read instead of cream  a bit of coconut milk,  almond milk   something your body can handle.  sometimes the milk is inflammatory to you stomach and intestinesAgree with this comment.  I also use alkaline water to brew, buy my coffee green and roast at home, but use raw, local organic cream to taste.  One to one and 1/2 cups each morning is my dose.  My body will tell me I’ve had enough.  I enjoy it immensely!What’s the point of drinking decaffeinated coffee?  I don’t get it, why not just quit altogether or are you addicted, just curious.What benefits?  Only reason to go to all these lengths to drink something that is clearly bad for you is addiction.What do you recommend, Betsy?Well, not really, but the important thing is that you got to feel cool with that witty line.I agree with you completely — the article you linked is bullshit.Just stop drinking coffee if it makes your thinking process that slow 🙂 Babbling about your personal food intolerance all over internet is odd.I have never drank coffee and I even stopped drinking anything with caffeine several years ago.  However, I do organic coffee enemas several times a week.  It has a different effect when used this way.  My husband drinks a 12-cup pot every morning.  We found him an organic brand that he likes a few months ago.  He had an ulcer blow in the mid-90’s but that more than likely was caused by tainted water on the military base in Korea.2 cups in the am and I’m rushing to the bathroomMy mother is English and i think i started drinking  black tea when i was about 3-4 years old with a lot of milk. I didn’t start drinking coffee until i was about 18 years old. I Have been on a few fasts when i was younger about 18 or so with no problem.  But now that i am older i have  tried to do fasts and i get really sick. I mean really sick where i can’t get out of bed. I want to do Dr. Edward Group liver cleanse and kidney cleanse but i don’t know what to do about the coffee. Should i ween off the coffee slowly then try the cleanses ?Can i even make an appointment with Dr. Group ? or is he too big now for small talk ?Oh ! ya forget to say i’m 59 now.The problem with this article is that it actually presents coffee as bad. When will writers of such articles stop being so vague about their comments and actually show research results (provable) and actually discuss whether this is caused long term or short term consumption, amount consumed on a daily basis, and so on. I could say similar things about apple consumption. This is fear mongering in disguise whether the writer knows it or not. Is the world’s population so dumb we have to go to the internet for health education without some modicum of discernment?
Just my 2 cents worth.Notice how he’s not an actual ‘doctor”, just a “natural health expert”.  Sorry, but there is no such thing.  All these people are the same – they ignore all proven science in favor of their “theories” and then call that “expertise”. Real medicine requires long hours and hard work, which is why medical doctors are so run down and overworked.  Can’t say the name about  naturopaths who like to pat themselves on the back all the time by pretending to know more than real doctors and then calling it “alternate” medicine. Real medicine saves lives; quackery can potentially endanger lives.You must be psychotic. Group makes standard doctors look ineffectual. His methods cure people so they don’t need him. Your “doctors”  are in the business of creating a need for them and keep people on pharmaceuticals and surgery leading to death. He’s the actual doctor and not those crooks you advocate. What? Do you love sickness, death and dependency? Everything you’re saying is a total lie.I 100% agree with you lovelamb.  Modern Western medicine is an aberration and absolute disgrace.  Complete scam where the doctors stuff money into the pockets of pharmaceutical companies all at the expense of their patients who continue to suffer from their poor health concerns while taking said medicine.  The ONLY path to true health is to take matters into your own hands and do as much research as possible and start to eat healthy, exercise, lower stress levels, and stop eating the crap food most Americans eat on a regular basis.