These double chocolate chip cookies are not your average cookie. For one, there’s no flour, , or processed oils in this seven-ingredient recipe. The best part is that they actually taste good! Some , vegan recipes are hit-or-miss. A lot of them just taste bland. These do not—they taste delicious and have a decadent texture. The combination of almond butter and cocoa powder produce the dense, soft, chewy consistency that double chocolate chip cookies are known to have. If you’re preparing these for an event, don’t forget to taste one when they’re fresh out the oven—the center is still a little gooey while the edges are lightly crisp.For this recipe, you’ll need the new, vegan egg-replacer: “aquafaba.” It sounds exotic, but it’s probably something you unknowingly throw out if you ever eat chickpeas.Aquafaba is the viscous brine left behind after boiling chickpeas. If you buy canned chickpeas, it’s the water or juice many recipes instruct you to drain off. Save this liquid next time you make hummus; it’s an incredible egg substitute. When whipped, it foams up exactly like egg whites. In fact, whipped aquafaba actually makes a more stable meringue than the traditional, egg-based recipe.This wonderful ingredient, once thoughtlessly discarded, rose to vegan-baking prominence because of Joël Roessel’s molecular gastronomy experiments. He was searching for a vegetable-based replacement for eggs and tried several other types of legume brine before realizing that chickpeas produced the best results. The liquid was coined aquafaba, meaning “bean liquid” by Indiana-based software engineer and vegan cook Goose Wohlt. The reason this unlikely ingredient works so well is still a bit of a mystery. Food scientists think it may have something to do with the naturally-occurring mixture of starches, hydrophilic (“water-loving”), and hydrophobic (“water-hating”) proteins in aquafaba.Substitute aquafaba for any recipe that calls for eggs as a binding ingredient. You can make egg-free, vegan macaroons, cakes, meringue, pancakes, buttercream frosting, even cocktails! According to Wohlt, add two tablespoons to replace an egg white, or three for a whole egg.You  use this recipe for a -based cookie-cutter cookies, but your cookies will rise and spread while baking. It can be difficult to get them to look right, but if you’re determined, go ahead and halve the measurement of chocolate chips. I also recommend lining your work area with parchment or wax paper, then covering the dough with another sheet before rolling it out to keep your rolling pin clean.Have you tried making gluten-free, vegan baked goods? What substitutions did you make? Do you have any tips? Leave a comment and share your thoughts!
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.If I want to use eggs instead, how many would I use in this recipe?  Looks delish!I believe 3 tablespoons of aquafaba equates to one large egg.Thanks!  That worked great!  These are delicious!!!