      A healthy weight loss program only produces sustaining results when exercise is combined with the right dietary approach. There are other components that play a role, such as sleep and sunlight exposure, but certain foods could really give your weight loss efforts a substantial boost.  is one of those foods. The active compound in turmeric, , could in fact halt the infiltration of fat tissue throughout the body by inhibiting angiogenesis.        Managing weight is a constant issue for many people, and researchers have been searching to find the solution. A study performed at Tufts University took a look at whether turmeric could produce favorable changes in body mass index.  A 12-week study in mice compared the effects of turmeric on a high-fat diet, administering a very small amount of curcumin daily of about 1.5 to 1.75 milligrams.    In comparison to the non-supplemented group of mice, those that were receiving turmeric gained less weight and body fat throughout the duration of the study. The mice taking curcumin during the 12 week period also had less blood vessel growth present in fat tissue, and blood sugar, cholesterol, liver fat, and triglycerides were remarkably lower. It does suggest that  may be a beneficial supplement when attempting to lose weight or maintain a healthy weight.    The exact mechanisms behind turmeric’s weight loss capabilities is still unclear; however, there are a few theories. For one, turmeric is one of the most powerful spices for reducing systemic redness, swelling, and irritation in the body, and this irritation is one of the leading factors behind  and every other debilitating disease. Turmeric also rates high on the ORAC antioxidant scale.  Antioxidants are not only helpful for protecting DNA and cells from oxidative damage, they’re also extremely useful for reducing fat accumulation.     Do you use turmeric regularly? Please let us know if it’s been helping you!  
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.Interesting information that I will incorporate into my diet plan. I also read that lowering the IGF-1 hormone can be a great benefit to reducing visceral body fat. Does GHC have any information on this subject and what results the trials are having?Haven’t looked into in depth enough to comment but it’s something we’ll have to check out.I have heard that using black pepper with turmeric is more effedtive, is this true and if so, what proportion should it be used ?
StanFor a year, now, I take 1.5g to 3g of curcumin 95% concentrated from tumeric every day.  I absolutely do feel better taking it, less joint pain, better overall.  I have’t noticed any reduction in fat.  In fact, I’ve put on weight during this time.It’s a true fact supported by a doctor who oversees an autoimmune disease I have; take 500 mg qd and I don’t gain a #, feel better overall.  Good luck all who take it.  An RNWellBetX Berberine contains a natural compound extracted from barberry
roots. The unique way in which berberine acts on the body makes it a
useful natural option for supporting blood sugar balance. Modern
evidence shows berberine plays a role in blood sugar metabolism, and
supports cardiovascular health by maintaining healthy blood lipid
levels.