 For years, scientists believed aging was a foregone conclusion and out of our control. Recent research, however, indicates that we have more authority over the aging process than previously realized. In fact, aging has more to do with the  and function of our cells than it does with the number of candles on our birthday cake. The best way to protect cells involves consumption of potent antioxidants, many of which are available in plant-based foods. By now, you’ve probably heard the buzz about antioxidants. These compounds, while promising, aren’t the only solution to the aging process, nor are they the magic bullet when it comes to good health.  are, however, potent compounds that aid an overall healthy lifestyle by supporting cellular health. They are indicated as powerful molecules that support healthy aging in more ways than one. A chemical in astragalus root, TAT2, stimulates the production of telomerase, an enzyme that aids telomere repair. Short telomeres indicate damaged DNA and are the key contributors to increased cellular aging.  also supports the liver’s toxin-removing actions. The increased urine flow flushes the kidneys and prevents toxin buildup.The French Paradox made  famous for its role in promoting longevity. Present in red wine, chocolate, and peanuts, resveratrol is unique among antioxidants for its ability to cross the blood-brain barrier and deliver potent soothing properties and free radical scavenging actions directly to brain cells. Its effect mimics caloric restriction, a proven anti-aging dietary strategy.Similar to resveratrol in function, pterostilbene may actually be a more powerful antioxidant. Like resveratrol, it mimics  which slows aging and promotes healing. Researchers have found it very effective for protecting and rejuvenating brain cells and promoting normal blood sugar and cholesterol. Often called PQQ Na, this non-protein co-enzyme facilitates cellular metabolic processes and stimulates mitochondrial regeneration, an essential factor in slowing the aging process. It also neutralizes free radicals and reactive oxygen species compounds that expedite physical aging.  work only in the digestive tract, while systemic enzymes support digestion and also enter the bloodstream to clear toxins and irritants. Systemic enzymes, also called proteolytic enzymes, support immune function and countless other processes in the body.Alpha-lipoic acid comes in two forms, r-lipoic acid (the most bioavailable and bioactive form) and s-lipoic acid. Lipoic acid plays a crucial role in mitochondrial energy creation which makes it an important part of the cellular life cycle. Inadequate levels leads to faster aging, and like other factors in mitochondrial processes, lipoic acid possesses a strong antioxidant effect.Anthocyanins give  their red color and offer a strong serving of antioxidants. Punicalagins specifically support cardiovascular and neurological health. Tibetan monks consider  the supreme herb. Two potent compounds in the herb–salidroside and rosavin–act as antioxidants, protect nerves and brain cells, encourage physical performance, and boost feelings of well being.Every cell in the body requires  to produce ATP. As a factor in the metabolic process, it acts as an antioxidant to neutralize free radicals protecting the cell, DNA, and mitochondria from oxidative damage.The human body naturally produces several of these antioxidants: CoQ10, PQQ, R-lipoic acid, and the digestive and systemic enzymes. Often, environmental and dietary toxins (such as HFCS, aspartame, , etc.) overload the body’s stores of these native antioxidants. This leads to less than stellar health in more ways than one. Do you supplement with antioxidants? Please let us know which ones in the comments!
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.Why don’t you give some doses?No Astaxanthin in the list? The most power Antioxident and anti inflammatory.Surely one isn’t advised to take them all.  ??Yes, astaxanthin.That’s the problem with these kind of articles. They don’t give you any practical info on dosage, etc.Absolutely, terrific blend.Depends on the product, Cell Fuzion for instance contains a 1640mg blend — I recovered from stage 1 colon cancer this year. In addition to liposomal Vitamin C, I also take Astragalus Root, Resveratrol and R-lipoic Acid as well as other natural supplements. I love your OxyPowder and Iodine Detox drops. ThanksWhat more can you tell us about it?Awesome success story, thanks for sharing.I take all of these in cell fusion which is an amazing product. It has helped me in many ways. I was having trouble with back pain,sleep and mood disorders, low energy and trouble. Since I’ve started using this product I have seen significant improvement in all of these areasHi Edward,
You make some valid points: Folks in Old Testament were breathing air with a higher level of oxygen.  Plants, animals and humans grew bigger and lived longer because of the oxygen. There are other factors but oxygen is the fuel. Regards, Scott.