    Recently, somebody forwarded me an article from USA Today titled  , which featured the many benefits of following a .        The article commented on the fact that if we look at the natural world, we would never find any other living creatures that are overweight (unless it’s our overfed pets). It’s almost hard for our minds to conjure up the image of an overweight plant or an overweight lady bug.This may be due to the fact that all other living creatures consume a steady diet of raw foods while humans are eating more cooked, processed foods and artificial toxin-containing foods.Thanks to irresponsible commercial farming techniques that depend on chemical fertilizers, pesticides,  and hormones to grow crops on already overworked land, a large percentage of today’s food supply has become saturated with toxins and has very little nutritional value.In todays world even the majority of raw foods may contain harmful toxins. If we can’t count on raw fruits and vegetables to be pure sources of nutrition, how are we supposed to obtain the energy necessary for life?The answer lies in choosing . Even better, you should grow your own food organically in a , provided you don’t live near sources of pollution such as refineries, heavy industry, or freeways.
	“‘Organic’ is a labeling term that denotes products produced under the authority of the Organic Foods Production Act. The principal guidelines for organic production are to use materials and practices that enhance the ecological balance of natural systems and that integrate the parts of the farming system into an ecological whole. Organic agriculture practices cannot ensure that products are completely free of residues; however, methods are used to minimize pollution from air, soil and water.” 
It’s becoming increasingly common to see organic fruits and vegetables at many grocery stores. Most likely, you can find a local farmer’s market in or near your city, especially near rural areas. A farmer’s market is the best place to buy your food because it is grown in your local environment and picked ripe, plus it supports your local, small-production farmers.        It is a way of eating that involves a huge dietary increase in the number of unprocessed and uncooked fruits and vegetables, as well as seeds, nuts, grains (mostly sprouted) and beans. A food is considered raw if it is uncooked or “prepared” below 116°F, as above this temperature range, food begins to lose its essential nutrients and enzymes, or its “vital life force.”The more we can eat foods that maintain that aliveness, the more “life force” we ourselves will be able to embody. Remember Life=Life and Death=Death. More than half a century ago in his book Prescription for Energy, Charles de Coti-Marsh explained, “By eating live foods you create a live body. Live foods contain essential nutrients the body needs to create and maintain energy. Dead foods speed age, decrease ability, and decrease energy … they are useless when dead…”The best way to approach raw foods is to gradually incorporate more and more raw fruits and vegetables into your diet. A good start is to try to eat 75% raw and 25% lightly cooked (especially in regard to whole grains).  Although I personally do not condone eating meat, I have added the safest meats to eat (upon request from consumers) in this general raw food diet plan so some people can make a gradual transition to a 100% raw diet. When we cook foods, we inevitably destroy some of the enzymes, vitamins and minerals necessary for good health. If we eat too much overly-cooked, microwaved and processes foods, it can clog our colon, which may lead to a whole host of problems, including, cancer, heart-disease, diabetes and many other degenerative diseases.Cooking may actually upset the natural structure of food, robbing it of its essential nutritional value. Ed Douglas, the director of the , believes that the human body was never meant to eat cooked food. Stephen Arlin, co-author of the book Nature’s First Law: The Raw Food Diet, even goes so far as to state that, “Cooked food is poison.”If you slowly begin to eat in this fashion, you will be amazed at your increased energy levels, youthful appearance and decreased visits to the doctors office. Increasing raw food intake has also been linked to a decreased need for sleep, with many reporting that they have more energy when they wake up in the morning, and that they find it easier to get out of bed!Other benefits of following a raw food diet include improved skin appearance, excess weight loss, improved digestion, the reduction of many diseases such as heart disease, diabetes, and cancer, as well as many other health debilitating ailments. Raw foods typically do not have as many trans and saturated fats, as compared to most cooked foods, especially fast food, junk food and any other processed foods.Raw foods are also extremely high in nutrients such as potassium, magnesium, fiber and plant phytochemical. A report from the Journal of Nutrition stated that increased use of raw foods in our diet lowers both cholesterol and triglyceride levels in the body , some of the main indicators for heart disease, obesity & high blood pressure.Furthermore, a raw food diet usually involves less packaging and less use of energy sources for cooking, thus making them the near perfect solution for eco-friendly eating. Raw foods also do not usually come in cans or plastics, thus reducing our intake of the harmful chemicals that can be emitted through canned and packaged containers. Don Weaver, the author of “The Survival of Civilization,” states that an increased raw food diet is the “most healthful diet for humans and the Earth as a whole.”If you are beginning to eat more raw fruits and vegetables, make sure to buy only organic or locally grown, as many of the toxins present in non-organic foods, such as , will not be eliminated with raw eating. Also, avoid eating raw meat, as it can be a host to a wide range of bacteria and .There is so much information regarding raw foods and personally I believe the best raw food diet is the fruitarian diet. However, everyone is different and you should always do thorough research before radically changing your diet.
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.I want to recommend another resource, a great book oneating raw,
“The Live Food Factor,” by Susan Schenck. She’s covered the raw food diet, nutrition, health, natural hygiene and anti-aging — plus has written the first comprehensive guide to the raw food diet. This is SUCH a worthwhile resource — it’s got it all! There are testimonials, research and my favorite — the recipes. It’s the raw food bible. It’s that good.Great post! I do alot of cooking. I’ve always been told that eating raw foods are best, it’s just kinda hard eating it all the time.I’ve never imagined this being a successfull method but it’s nice to see people interested in it.very good article thanks for the info.  i also found more good stuff on a site called RawPeople.com,  they are very helpfull.The most highly revered diet loss herb is green tea. Other types of herbs usually come with serious side effects, so it is usually best to stick with green tea. You add in healthy meals of veggies and low-fat proteins, and you have a week-long, healthy detox that is a terrific way to jumpstart a diet loss plan. I do this detox several times a year, just to help keep my system balanced. If you took good notes, then you’ll be able to use the review process as a learning experience to fine tune your rapid diet loss.Hi,I have tried mixing various fruits for making juices that are really tasty and healthy. From here I got various others information for being healthy. Thanks for sharing such good things.JosephRaw food diet is the best way to give your body the nourishment it needs. A raw food diet is no longer an underground trend. The underlying theory is that raw food contain a higher source of nutrients and that cooking food reduces the nutrient values found within the food.wayan tulusapple good for reflux disease……I love natural foodsHi,I am new to the world of the raw food lifestyle and am having a hard time finding recipes that I like aside from plain fruits and veggies. Can anyone suggest some good raw food recipes??? (no nuts please.)LisaI agree with the points above.
But i must admit that it’s hard to resist the “cooked” food though 🙂I agree with you, that raw foods are the best nutrient source.
Can you suggest the easy way to avoid “cooked” food temptation?Raw food diet is the best way to give your body the nourishment it needs. Being overweight does not mean you have all the nourishment that your body needs, as a matter of fact overweight individuals usually crave for the essential nourishment that their body needs. The reason that they are overweight is because of the processed foods that they consume and the way the foods served.I love organic raw food like fruits and veggies. I’m on my five months since I started this diet and, boy my body never had it this good.Nice post.. I agree with you… The raw food diet will help us to lose weight fast and healthy.Please send me information regularly.i will like to find a diet for my mother,so that she can stop talking high blood pressure medication.THANK TOUHere are a few good resources –
Raw Food made Easy by Jennifer Cornbleet
Eating without Heating by Sergei and Valy Boutenko
Optimum Health Institute’s cookbook – includes great ‘pizza’ and ‘sushi’ recipes, may have to order from their San Diego bookshop.
If you are in NCY, the Plant has classes.
SandraIt’s really useful information for anyone who wants to run diet. They will have this information useful in choosing the kind of food that suit best for their dietGood post. I think that do raw food diet will help us to lose our fat naturally. I have a wonderful experience with this diet in my review. Just take a look for moment in my own site.good post. it is very interesting review. i also had an experience with a raw food diet. trust me, its really works. just take a look for a moment in my own site.Hi
How funny to think I have actually never seen a fat tree! I live in the poor country called Botswana. The food industry has done our people great harm that even our last monies are spent on junk and even hospitals supply 90%+ processed foods to patients! I am in a campaign for raw organic foods and your article has added stature to mine.Thanks and God bless you allNice post and very interesting article,,Making healthy food choices that are good for your heart can dramatically reduce the risk of heart disease. Heart Diet will help us to reduce our fat in normal way and also to avoid us from another heart attack,,Nice article! This could be a good reference for everybody who wants to live healthier! I think, if we want to live healthy we must consume the healthy food also such as organic foods.Wow,this is what I’m looking for,,Healthy eating doesn’t mean that we change all of our eating habits. First things first, try to cook at home more often. For your daily eating habit, pay more attention to the nutrition fact of each food product. a healthier lifestyle  is important to support our Healthy Food RecipeThank you for the great raw food article and info.
Great looking website.
Thank youI support you 101%God gave us the right food to eat from the beggining.The use of diet pills have increased a lot these days and people are often forgetting to take leafy and raw vegetables in plenty.The diet pills have actually disturbed the life style of teenage children who are under the assumption that the magic pills would solve the problem of obesity.But these obese teens always tend to forget that medicines speed up the natural process of weight loss and increase the chances of getting more fat and carbohydrates.PLEASE HELP!  I HAVE A HAIR LOSS PROBLEM AND HAVE ALREADY USED BASICALLY ALL MAJOR HAIR LOSS PRODUCTS OUT THERE.  DO YOU KNOW WHAT IS THE ULTIMATE CURE FOR HAIR LOSS?  ANY INFORMATION ABOUT IT PLEASE LET ME KNOW.  PLEASE BE SERIOUS. THANK YOUvery helpful for me to fight against weight gain. nice idea, thanks!I love an apple early in the mornings. Sweet and juicy!I couldnt agree more. organic is the way to go!  I take a slightly different slant as i concentrate on making healthy eating fun for kids and fun for adults who are trying to slim down.The truth of the matter is that children are mini adults therefore they too have motivating factors to inspire them to eat healthy foods. Us adults are in some way more stubborn than children, ironically however these five factors are true of all of us.1) Tasty choices. Many kids love plums, pears, watermelon, peaches, raspberries, blackberries, tangerines, cherries, blueberries, strawberries, and pineapples and it’s far too often kids’ fruit alternatives are restricted to only apples and bananas, and maybe oranges and grapes too. Try corn bran, Spoon-Sized Shredded Wheat, or oatmeal with fresh berries.
2) The limitation factor. If there are healthy foods readily available, children will pick their favorites from amongst those healthy choices.
3) Presentation needs to be FUN. Multimillion-dollar advertising campaigns compete against us all the time when we are deciding what to feed our children. TV doesn’t always help either because there are many commercials that promote sweetened breakfast cereals which while reaching their right audience, sweetened cereals are not as healthy as the unsweetened variety. Add fruit to cereals which would take place of the ‘sweetners’.
4) If that happens to fail, be a sneak and sneak it in. Make carrot muffins with zucchini bread. Add pieces of fruit or shaved vegetables to virtually any baked dish. While dried fruit is high in sugar, it is also high in fiber so dried cranberries can be a hit. Kids love smoothies! A great way to hide fruit and vegetables is in whole-food smoothies and juices. The Sneaky Chef and Deceptively Delicious are two recently published cookbooks that offer more ideas on how to hide the healthy stuff!
5) Multivitamins are essential. In this day and age so many foods are processed so give a daily multivitamin as a safety net. Vitamins are compounds necessary in trace amounts for the normal functioning of children and adults alike.I have great respect for the longstanding relationship between humans and their natural foods. By eating whole foods (fresh fruit, vegetables and whole grains, etc.), your child can get the necessary vitamins in the healthiest way. In order to see the world around us we need these vitamins to grow as they help bones and connective tissue to grow, stop us from bleeding to death, heal wounds, fight infections and cancer, and keep our teeth from falling out.As we know most preschoolers and toddlers are often picky eaters. As children’s tastes change as they grow, and they do eventually get to eating a more well-rounded diet. So vitamins (the “safety net”) takes the pressure off feeding issues during the primary years. You can be free to be creative about increasing whole foods in your child’s diet, knowing that vitamins are present to help your child grow strong and healthy without pressure or worry.
Now that we have mass advertising, children’s fun meals, and peer pressure makes the battle all the harder. Never push or force them, entice them, persuade them and most importantly teach them. Battle bad  nutrition. The battle should never be with your kids.  Thumbs up for organic foods and healthy children 🙂This is interesting article. Most of people is forgetting simple, healthy and good food and changing it for junk food these days. It takes so little to change eating habits, but still most of people don’t do that…Great info.  I have only recently started eating healthily and all this information really is a god sent.  Can you recommend other good recipes?Eating raw food is by far the healthiest habit you can ever have. You’ll have increased energy, more beautiful skin, better food digestion and an over-all well-being. You can stay away from harmful chemicals.I love juicing for health and this site has great info.I’m on my 4th month of leading a healthy life. I am now trying to be a vegetarian. I must say, I’m more active now, I have more energy unlike before.I am not really that fond of raw food. But your article does makes a lot of sense. I’ll be trying slowly incorporate this in my diet. I’ve been wanting to quit smoking too, maybe this could help me.People should learn how to incorporate raw food diet into their lifestyle. It may sound funny but true, a friend once told me that once you get older it’s very hard to lose weight because by then, your body and your fat are really good friends.I don’t know raw food is that much good but everybody here is saying the raw food diet will help then I will try it.I am losing weight, maybe due to stress and problems that I am experiencing. Your article made me realized that I should take good care of myself.
Also for letting me know that all other living creatures consume a steady diet of raw foods, while humans are eating more cooked, processed foods and artificial toxin containing foods. Now I know the difference.
Thank you so much and I am going to wait for your new blogs!Thanks so much for this great article; this is the kind of thing that keeps me going throught the day.
I`ve been looking around for your site after I heard about them from a buddy and was thrilled when
I was able to find if after searching for some time. Being a avid blogger, I`m pleased to see others
taking initiative and contributing to the community. I just wanted to comment to show my appreciation
for your work as it`s very encouraging, and many writers do not get the credit the deserve. I am sure
I`ll be back and will send some of my friends.Awesome post, thank you! Didn´t knew that raw food is that healthy but could imagine since I´m feeling better everytime I eat large amounts of fruits and uncooked vegetables.I am eating organic food since I remember and I am still too fat:( Can you give me some advice?Hi Esta, I would recommend doing my 13 step cleanse program. It sounds like you are on the right path, but I am not sure what cleansing programs you have done in the past. Dr. Groups Whole Body and “Green Living” Cleanse Steps:Step 1: Fill out a Health Questionnaire to evaluate your current health statusStep 2: Perform the 7-Day Oxygen Colon Cleanse or the 6-Day Advanced Oxygen Colon Cleanse (recommended for best results)Step 3: Perform your first Liver & Gallbladder CleanseStep 4: Rest for 5-10 daysStep 5: Perform your second Liver & Gallbladder Cleanse. During this time start on your Harmful Organism Cleanse.Step 6: Fill out the Health Questionnaire again to evaluate your progress.Step 7: Rest for 5-10 daysStep 8: During this rest period, test yourself for heavy metal toxicity using the Mineral Check Test Kit Step9: Perform your third Liver and Gallbladder CleanseStep 10: Rest for 5-10 days and fill out the Health Questionnaire againStep 11: Perform the Chemical & Heavy Metal CleanseStep 12: Continue on a maintenance dose of Oxy-Powder 2-3x weekly to keep your intestines clean and prevent toxins from entering your body.Step 13: Perform the “Green Living” Cleanse.~Dr. Graw food is wonderful 🙂 good article here 🙂i’ve had the best results on a program called 80/10/10 by Dr Douglas Graham. have you heard of it?haha, I wonder if it would be true that without unnatural food there would be no one overweight.  Kinda crazy to think about…I love raw food because I receive all their nutrients and feel very good. I was also reading an article about green tea and I think green tea is perfect to add it to your daily diet because it has lots of benefits.Usually I don’t publish on web sites, but I’d want to state that this post in fact pushed me to perform so! Really great article. I’ve never thought eating wrong kind of foods can lead to different diseases. Yikes. thanks for the awesome article. I’m going to share this to my family and hope to start eating healthier foods.I like the apple from the picture, and i think that apple is defineately healthyEating raw food involves a lot of confidence and practice, especially if you’re not a vegan or vegetarian. We all know that a fruit based diet can really help, but the ocassional cooking will also do once in a while.Good workRecently, I have been trying, or at least considering a whole food diet.Actually, I don’t really think I could do a 100% whole food diet, but how about just a 50-80% whole food diet?Setting realistic goals, is the best case for me. Even if not, I think eating at least 50% whole foods owuld be a huge benefit for myself, and a good goal to make.It has many benefits!Thanks..Aah! sometimes I wish to human kind to return towards nature. When we used to live in forest and every thing was organic.Chemical fertilizers spread very negative effect on human liver. One day we will know.The power of organic food is no doubt, unfathomable. Old men knew it and they used to live long.This is very good article and it’s so true, organic food is so much healthier and it can help the body to regulate a lot of functions.I’ve thought of doing this before but never have done it. I love cooking so much, I would miss it! Maybe I’ll give it a shot though.I’m just not sure if I’m sold on the raw diet yet.For SOME people it seems to work so well, but others… Have you see those pasty, gaunt looking older people who are saying they’re really healthy but that look like death?It seems like it depends a lot on what your body is already like, genetically, as to how beneficial it will be for you.Anyone else think the same or is it just me??I can’t say I read all these posts but I didn’t see smoothies mentioned as a really good way to incorporate organic fruits and vegetables into a diet. When made with fresh produce, ice, and other natural ingredients such as honey a smoothie will provide a tasty and healthy way to eat naturally.Thank you so much for this GREAT Article. Basically we can eat all foods, but bear in mind that we don’t need to have it in an exaggerated ways. Of course, if you want to have your real lifetime health, just consider eating the “what must” to your body such as: vegetables, fruits, coconut oil or olive oil, salmon and etc! The healthier food you consume, the happier your life will be.Eating fresh, raw foods is a challenge because have you noticed it costs more to attempt to eat healthy? They’d rather you consume bucket loads of processed foods, it’s cheaper to create and there is more margin in it for businesses.ATTENTION TO PEOPLE WHO DON’T LIKE RAW FOODS:Want to get the same nutrition without having to eat raw food? The answer is simple – steam your vegetables!Steaming (not boiling) food keeps the nutrients locked into the vegetables and will yield the same benefits as eating it’s raw equivalent.Enjoy eating your newly found friends 🙂thanks for the good information about the Benefits of a Raw Food Diet. now just keep on healthy life. may GBU all.hi
if you want to have your real lifetime health, just consider eating the “what must” to your body such as: vegetables, fruits, coconut oil or olive oil, salmon and etc! The healthier food you consume, the happier your life will be.Aside that raw food diet is nutritious, I also consider it as my daily diet food supplement, eating fruits, lots of water, vegetables.
But i must admit that there are some foods that I realy prefer short “cooked”There are giant health benefits to be gained by eating healthy portions of fresh fruit and vegetables each day. Diets high in fruit and vegetables are known to help keep our hearts healthy, and help protect us from diseases.Has anybody ever noticed that most fruits and vegetables are mostly water like humans and the earth?The last 2 year I have been saving money growing my own vegetable garden – Each year my garden gets bigger – I spend about $60.00 a month at a store – my health is wonderful and I look 20 years younger. Let’s not forget that there are others as well. Gardens are a potential means to increase our confidence in food safety and security. We know where the food is coming from and all the history of plants grown in our own gardens. We know what chemicals were used, we know what pests were problems and we essentially eliminated the whole resource-gobbling transportation chain to get the food to your plate. And all that gardening is good for you. It is a great form of physical exercise, and I haven’t met a nutritionist yet who didn’t think that fresh produce was “good for you” too!I love this article. I have been eating more raw in the past and this last year I let it go for a while. I moved and it seemed to be hard to get my system in place again. Looking back, my gradual health problems did not start until I began consuming processed foods again. Lets face it, its easier to eat all this unhealthy prepared food than it is to prepare healthy foods on a daily basis. I got to the point to where my skin became more and more inflammed-very similar to a chronic allergic reaction. It got so bad that I literally went to the fride and cupboards on day and threw out all of the garbage and started over with a more raw-based diet. I started juicing daily, working out and drinking more water. I even did some cleansing.  Within just a few days, the itching stopped and within a month or so, my skin made a dramatic improvement. That was just 3 months ago and I continue to this day to get my “old-young-self” back. Advice to people: Don’t get caught up on any particular “diet”-eat for nutrition and your body will reward you. Fresh juicing really helped me “reset” my body and soon I starting craving good quality whole raw foods. If you feed your body what it needs, you will not feel “deprived”-Avoid the microwave and toxic chemicals like a plague. Is such a program good for  you? Put it this way, if a medical doctor tells me I must eat so much dairy and meat-I would consider him/her to be ignorant and untrained in basic nutrition. People must take responsibility for their own health. Let your body decide what it likes-it really knows without you even having to think about it. One thing about cost: There are so many things you can make if you have the proper tools-good juicer, blender and dehydrator. I have cut my food cost way down because I am not buying dairy or meat. I still eat seldom a little good quality meat and very little dairy. But they must be from a source I know and not from a poisonous source (like most of the supermarkets). Once you get in a habit of eating raw and preparing your meals, its really not bad, when you consider the almost immediate benefits! Don’t ecpect the people around you to understand your new eating choices, just stay focused and feed your body real food. Question everything that is considered “food”-just because it is on the shelf at the store, does not make it safe-be informed and try new things. Thanks again for the article! Good luck everyone!Outward appearance is not always an indicator of how healthy they may be. I think the main problem is to do with losing weight as we grow older. I am 53, and have lost 22kilos in less than 4 months. So, yes, all that weight loss and a thinner face makes me look older, but in reality, I feel 20 years younger and my agility has improved immeasurably. Another good example is that my libido and things in that department have also improved to an extent that I feel VERY youthful!Fruitarian diets are a terrible idea and will leave one significantly malnourished over the long-term, and unless you’re rapidly exercising every day, the sugar will have devastating effects. Where are you going to get enough zinc, iron, iodine, B12, and EPA/DHA? Iron from plants has very poor bioavailability. I challenge any fruitarian to get a SpectraCell test performed on them and post it to the public, they will be deficient in a variety of nutrients. The Natural Hygiene diet is an outdated and downright dangerous diet to follow. If you’re going to be raw vegan, you must follow a well-balanced diet which includes sprouts, algae’s, sea vegetables, fruits, vegetables, and sprouted nuts/seeds. I know people want to think it’s as simple as eating fruits and vegetables, but that’s not the reality. Also, the whole vegans causing no harm isn’t reality either, they are still killing a plant and new research has proven that plants can feel pain, and this is coming from a raw vegan.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()So Joe, do you speak from experience – Have you tried a fruitarian diet for any stretch of time?Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Raw veganism is a remarkable diet.  I stumbled upon it a few years ago when I began to incorporate juicing into my diet as part of a revitalization effort.  I remained a raw vegan for about six months.
My view about diet is that there is no perfect diet which is universal, although there may be some universal principles which may apply (such as eating clean, or `non-toxic’, for example.)
My own experience with raw veganism corresponds largely to what the good Dr. has written here.  Every department of functionality was improved — biochemical (according to blood tests), psychological (in light of the nature of `lived-experience’), sociological (in keeping with improved mood, cognition, energy, empathy), religiousity (in light of the reduced focus on vulgar materialism and the corresponding act of opening of channels for `higher-order’ transcendental experience.)
Ancient knowledge reveals that diet in a major instrument of liberation — from suffering (dukha) in general and may contribute very substantially to happiness.
However, according to Ajurvadic thought on the matter of raw veganism, certain people fare better with it than others, depending on `type’.  There are three main types of persons.  Some may become somewhat manic or overly-talkative and hyper-energized to an unacceptable degree, for example.
Climate may also be relevant with respect to practice.  A friend who is a homesteader in central Canada where the temperature drops to 50 below zero fahrenheit at times reports to me that raw veganism does not work in the depths of winter.  On the other hand, I have read that some people in the Transcaucasis in Eurasia may live to be more than 100 years of age disease free on a raw vegan diet — and they attribute their longevity to their diet.
My sense is that raw veganism is a powerful tool in a dietary context.  Even if one cannot stick with it for life, its periodic use for purposes of detoxification restoration, revitalization, philosophical reflection, humanization, and so on and so forth, is really rather remarkable.
Remaining raw vegan continuously for six months a year on a periodic basis would provide major benefits in every aspect of life.  Alternatively, continuous raw veganism at all times for the foreseeable is also an option, assuming one does not get a bad nutritional outcome.
I recall that when I was pursuing a raw vegan dietary regime I used to be regularly amazed by the life-restoring and world transforming results.  It vanquished pain and torpor, it performed healing miracles, it caused me to wonder how and why all people did not gravitate to this way of eating, seeing, being, knowing.
I am convinced that there is more to raw veganism than our current ways of thinking allow us to grasp.  It is a transcendentalizing diet, if you will.  We do no yet have a language which allows us to describe such a diet.  But it is possible to try it, while at the same time trying to reduce, avoid and prevent the introduction of fake and poisonous food into our bodies.