The liver is the human body’s largest internal organ and one of the most important for survival. Without it, bodily tissues would die from lack of nutrients and  and the digestive process would not be able to take place. One of the liver’s most important functions is the  from your system. This function is why cleansing your liver and living a healthy lifestyle is so crucial. Performing a liver cleanse can help remove toxic buildup for overall health and wellness. Before doing a liver cleanse, it is important to understand what the liver is and all of the necessary functions it performs.Inside your body, the liver sits primarily on the right side. It spans across the top of the abdominal cavity, above your stomach and below your diaphragm, leaning down towards the right kidney. This vital organ is soft and rubbery with a reddish-brown color, weighs about three pounds, and contains one pint of blood at any given moment. It is triangular and consists of two primary lobes made up of 1,000 lobules. These tiny lobules contain small tubes that are connected to larger tubes which form the common hepatic duct. This duct is responsible for transporting bile made by the liver to the gallbladder and the first part of the small intestine known as the duodenum.The importance of this organ is immense. The liver is responsible for essential activities beyond digestion and filtering toxins. The functions it performs on a daily basis warrant regular health maintenance and care.The liver is the metabolic center of the body. Controlled by the central nervous system, the liver is responsible for the metabolization of  (fats, carbohydrates, and proteins). This metabolic process also produces  that  scavenge to maintain the oxidative and antioxidative balance in the liver. Insulin and glucagon hormones are what drive the metabolic function of this organ.The liver is responsible for the production of bile, proteins for blood plasma, glucose, and cholesterol. The bile your liver produces helps break down fats in the small intestine and take away waste. The proteins needed for blood plasma are also made in the liver and consist of fibrinogen, prothrombin, and albumins. The first two proteins are coagulation components that aid in the blood-clotting process, while albumins maintain the blood’s environment to keep blood cells at an even hydration level. The production of cholesterol and other proteins help transport fats throughout the body.The liver helps keep your blood sugar levels even. It produces and distributes glucose depending on your body’s needs. When you eat, your liver holds onto sugar, or glucose, to use as fuel for a later time. If there is little to no sugar present in your body but your organs and red blood cells need it, your liver produces another kind of fuel called ketones derived from . A low level of insulin in your body is what triggers this .The liver acts as a storage unit holding your glucose supply, nutrients, minerals such as  and copper, and vitamins A, D, E, K, and . Many of these components are collected from blood passing through the hepatic duct. This function of the liver ensures that a constant supply of these essential nutrients will be provided to the body’s tissues when they need it.The liver is part of the innate immune system, also known as the nonspecific immune system. This type of immune system provides immediate action against infection but does not generate long-lasting immunity to the organism, which is a trait the adaptive immune system carries. The innate immune system identifies an issue and deploys immune cells to the area in need of defense and repair. The liver’s primary immunity function is to identify and remove harmful toxins in the body. It also helps with the production of cells responsible for the activation of the adaptive immune system.It’s the production of bile that places the liver in yet another category—. The cells responsible for this process, called hepatocytes, are found in the parenchymal tissue of the liver. They make up 70-85% of the liver’s mass. Bile is passed through bile ducts and either stored in the  or released into the duodenum to help with digestion. It is comprised of cholesterol, water, bile salts, and a pigment called bilirubin. These components that make up bile help break down fats into .The liver and kidneys are the main organs responsible for detoxification. The liver protects the body from toxic chemicals by cleaning blood and filtering out harmful chemicals in red blood cells. This process transforms these chemicals into compounds that can then be safely and efficiently removed from the body through urine.You are exposed to toxins every day. These toxins can come in the , food preservatives, chemicals, , and  which can greatly affect the liver. There are several signs to look for regarding a troubled liver.Sometimes referred to as a “liver detox,” a liver cleanse involves following a regulated diet over a period of four to five days and ends with a “flush day.” The objective of a liver cleanse is to reduce or eliminate toxins in the liver so that it can perform all of its functions more effectively.The liver is your filter for toxins. After a time it can become clogged with toxic residue, hindering its ability to keep your body free of these unhealthy components.Think of the liver like the air conditioning filter in your house. You know it’s time to replace or clean it when it becomes dark and clogged. In this state, the filter can no longer keep your house clear of things like dust, pet dander, dirt, and toxins. Before the liver gets to a similar state, it’s time for it to be cleansed of the toxic residue that has built up over time. This will also give the liver time to heal itself.To safely and efficiently detox the liver, try to eat healthy organic meals leading up to a cleanse.  Avoid meat, fatty foods, and  such as processed foods. Following a liver cleanse diet lasts about five days and has two phases: the preparation for your liver’s flush (the first four days), and the purge itself on day five.Following a healthy liver cleanse diet is crucial in the first days of your cleanse. Eat fresh, organic foods and drink purified or distilled water. You may be able to enhance your water with a liver-supporting herbal blend, such as . Global Healing Center includes Livatrex in the , a program that helps stimulate the liver and purge toxins.A week before the cleanse you should rid your , and eliminate products that contain chemicals like nail polish, hairspray, or other chemically produced beauty products.  before and after a cleanse, and consider eliminating alcohol from your life altogether. Consult a healthcare professional before undergoing a cleanse.There are several foods to avoid during a liver cleanse. Because the liver acts as a filter, only fresh, healthy organic foods are permissible to avoid added buildup and eradicate the liver of residual toxins. Foods to avoid during this time are:In order to support a healthy liver cleanse, there are specific  that can aid in digestion and promote a healthy evacuation of toxins from your body. These foods contain , namely , that are linked to healthy liver function.A healthy liver cleanse should involve homemade meals using only fresh, organic ingredients. Try using these recipes when undergoing a detoxification process.Instructions and ingredients for a healthy liver cleanse soup:Wash the vegetables and finely chop the ingredients to your preferred consistency. Pour 32 ounces of distilled or purified water into a soup pot and add all ingredients. Bring to a boil, reduce heat, and then simmer on low heat for one hour.To alternate meals during your cleanse week, try a blended drink:Blend until the desired consistency is reached.Instead of three large meals, eat five small portions per day (this includes two snacks). Chew your food thoroughly and eat at a slow pace to ensure proper digestion. Drink only distilled water. To enhance flavor and nutrition, you can mix two tablespoons of raw organic  (ACV) to one gallon of . Shake and refrigerate. You can prepare this in the morning and enjoy it throughout the day.Around 8:00 a.m. to 10:00 a.m, start each morning with an eight-ounce glass of the ACV and water mix accompanied by a small bowl of fresh fruit. Make sure to eat only one selected fruit. Watermelon is a great choice due to its water and fiber content.  Some of the better choices are:To break up the day and get more nutrients into your system while on a cleanse, eat a handful of nuts or seeds and wash it down with 12 ounces of your ACV/water mix. Choose only one type of nut or seed. Good choices include:Natural supplements consisting of herbs and spices like , , , and cinnamon are a great way to add more nutrients and flavor to meals while maintaining a healthy liver detoxification.Around noon, have the liver cleanse soup or the liver cleanse juice. The soup is ideal for flush day, as the leftovers will be a nourishing lunch for the day after the cleanse.As an afternoon snack or your dinner around 4:00 pm choose either a handful of walnuts, an avocado with lemon and sea salt, or fast through the afternoon with just the ACV/water mix.To prepare for the flushing process on day five, you will be ingesting water, Epsom salt, and olive oil over a period of about two hours.Around 7:00 pm, mix one tablespoon of Epsom Salt in eight ounces of warm purified water and drink it quickly. You may experience liquid stools within 20­ minutes after ingestion, so it is advisable to be near a bathroom.Between 8:30 and 9:00 pm, drink ¾ cup of organic cold pressed . A small amount, about two tablespoons, of freshly squeezed orange, grapefruit, or lemon juice may be added to improve taste. It is important to drink all six ounces. There are a few ways to ingest the oil to make it easier to go down:Immediately after drinking the oil, go to bed and lie on your right side with your knees pulled up to your stomach for 30 minutes. After this step, you can stretch out and . Cramping can occur, which is a sign the purge of toxins is working. Walking around for ten minutes followed by another attempt at sleep should help. Nausea can be another common side effect due to the release of toxins from the liver. Be sure to vomit if necessary. This nauseous result is a sign that your body may be in need of another cleanse.The day after completing the cleanse, consider doing a natural water enema or taking six  capsules immediately after waking up to naturally flush the stones that have been released from the liver and gallbladder. If you’re curious as to how many stones you’ve released, buy an inexpensive colander and place it over the toilet to collect these stones.  Afterwards, rinse thoroughly in the sink to see how many stones you’ve passed.Breakfast should consist of fruit, followed by the remaining liver cleanse soup for lunch, and a healthy dinner of salad and a light protein. Make sure to drink distilled or purified water with fresh lemon.Liver cleanses are different for many people, but a lack of energy and an emotional response can occur, especially once the cleanse is completed. Some people may also notice a few issues with their skin, along with an overall feeling of sickness during and after the cleanse. These conditions will improve over a short period. A week or so after a cleanse, many people experienced higher , better digestion, and an overall feeling of wellness. Again, consult your healthcare provider before starting a liver cleanse. Many people don’t realize the impact an unclean liver can have on their daily performance, energy levels, and even appearance. The accumulation of different toxins is taxing on the liver. These toxins are lumped into two categories: exogenous toxins and endogenous toxins. Exogenous toxins are comprised of anything that originates outside of the body including toxins found in food, water, and air. Endogenous toxins are a normal byproduct of your body resulting from . Performing a liver cleanse to remove these toxins can affect the overall wellness and health of your entire body.An unhealthy outward appearance can show what’s going on inside of your body. Detoxifying your liver may help to boost your immune system and enable much-needed nutrients to reach destinations that help with cell regeneration. Once your inside is refreshed, your outside will reflect that and may reduce the appearance of age by as much as five to ten years. can be one of the results of a liver cleanse. When the liver becomes blocked due to high toxicity levels, it isn’t able to perform two of its key functions—bile production and metabolism. Cleaning this organ encourages healthier functioning making it easier for the liver to break down fats and produce bile.Fatigue, sleep apnea, and sluggishness can be linked to an unhealthy diet and unclean liver. Flushing your body of toxins through a cleanse enables the body to receive the nutrient byproducts produced by the liver. These nutrients will have a marked effect on your energy levels as well as an overall feeling of wellness.The kidneys and gallbladder aren’t the only organs to produce stones; your liver can achieve this as well.  are similar to gallstones with the exception of location, and form due to high cholesterol levels. When too much cholesterol is present in the body, excess amounts may crystallize into lumps resembling tiny pebbles. These stones, stored in the liver, can considerably affect liver function. Performing a cleanse may help flush these unwanted stones out of your system, supporting a more productive liver.The liver’s role as part of your  can be compromised as a result of residual toxins. Cleaning these toxins from your liver will give your immune system a boost by affecting your liver’s ability to address infection and identify toxins in the blood.The number of times you choose to perform a liver cleanse is up to you. Experts recommend a full cleanse two or three times a year. Always consult a trusted healthcare professional before beginning any cleanse. However, some people perform this process several times with five to 10-day intervals to feel a more profound result. To start your cleanse, try the . This all-natural, multi-tiered program uses the power of  to kickstart your liver’s natural cleansing abilities, and  to facilitate toxin removal.Have you ever done a liver cleanse? Are you thinking about trying one? We’d love to hear your story. Please tell us about your experience in the comments section below.
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.I’m a huge fan of NAC for liver health.Hi! Thanks so much for the liver cleanse protocol, I followed yours with the stones coming out this morning, and boy was it necessary 🙂
But I couldn’t help but wonder, is it possible if one feels up to it, in other words strong enough, to make it a double cleanse?
What I mean is, 2 liver cleanses in a row. So today was my last day, the 6th, and ended with the 6 capsules as described. But amazingly I didn’t feel this bad at all comparing to earlier liver cleanses on the last day. This made me wonder, could it be possible to do another round on this same day?
So you followed the program of day 6 and at 7PM you take another round of epsom salts followed by the olive oil at 9PM.
Or would that be too risky as you do not know how you feel afterwards doing so?thanks,
best of wishes and health,
DanHi, Dan. Great question. We recommend forgoing another flush as this may aggravate the “healing crisis” which can occur during or after a liver cleanse. So, it’s best to rest a few days before repeating the entire program all over again. This will also give
your body time to further soften and break down toxins during Days 1-4.Hi! Think your absolutely right on that. After I wrote that idea, I found out something that scared the heck out of me. On the last day of the flush when I felt so “great”, things began to turn around. At around 5PM, I had to go out for some groceries, in my case some soup for dinner that evening. Before I went out I took some vitamins as I started to feel a little weary. So I decided for I went out the door to take a little rose hip powder (organic) in a glass of water. This seemed ok, but turned out it almost knocked me out. After about 10 to 15 minutes I was feeling so faint I almost passed out. So you see, one has to be careful not to jump too fast at conclusions! Still wonder though what really caused this, as I have experienced similar situations before, but not during any cleanse but in every day life. I have to point out that I also have fatigued adrenals and thyroid and more. It’s hard for me to cope some times as here, where I live, aren’t any specialists around like dr. Group that I can go to. So it is all about self educating and that could go wrong as you’ve noticed.
Had succes relieving stones though and that’s a big win!Hi, question for you–I did several, maybe five or so liver cleanses a couple of years ago and felt great afterwards. I’d like to do more, but I now have an intolerance to olive oil, possibly because I used a lot of it when I had severe leaky gut. I can’t have more than about a tablespoon without getting a migraine. Are there any other oils that can be used for the liver cleanse protocol?Great question. For best results, it’s recommended to use an oil high in
monounsaturated fat and low in saturated fat to encourage a generous
bile response and minimal transit time in the stomach. This increase in bile is what will ultimately purge the toxins that you have been breaking down in Days 1-4. So, although olive oil works great for this process, you can also
consider the following alternatives:-Macademia Oil
-Almond Oil
-Pecan Oil
-Pumpkin OilHope this helps!