A healthy colon is the center of a healthy, happy life. The colon is a workhorse for your digestive system and helps absorb the nutrients your body needs. Unfortunately, with all the good your colon does, it also gets hit with the brunt of toxins and  takes in. Fortunately, if you want to keep your colon clean and healthy, there are many options available to you. First and foremost, eating more fruits and vegetables and sticking to the right diet plan will have exponential benefits. Performing an organic colon cleanse will take your colon health even further and help prevent toxic buildup.If you have ever wondered what your colon is, what it does, or how to keep it healthy, now is the time to find out. Let’s explore the colon and what it means to your health.The colon is an intricate part of the large intestine. Also called the large bowel, your large intestine connects the small intestine to the anus. The four major components of the large intestine are the cecum, colon, rectum, and anal canal. The colon is tubular shaped and connects the cecum to the rectum. It has several layers of muscle and fat with a mucous membrane as its inner lining. The “U” shaped colon subdivides into four sections—the ascending colon, transverse colon, descending colon, and sigmoid colon. On average, the colon is around five feet long in adults and takes up the majority of space inside the abdominal cavity.The colon plays a vital role in how your body processes food. As your  breaks down the food you eat, it enters into the colon in a mostly liquid state. The colon performs two significant roles at this stage of the digestive process. First, bacteria in your colon break down the food further. Second, it absorbs additional nutrients and liquid. Leftover food waste is then turned into feces and stored in the descending colon until it is ready to be expelled from the body.Your colon plays a crucial role in digestion and is part of one of your body’s primary organs—the large intestine. Just like a malfunctioning heart or lung, if your colon fails, then your entire health is affected.Colon health is a spectrum. On one end, colon complications can lead to death, but far more common are smaller manifestations of subpar colon health. If you feel sluggish or get sick often, your colon health may be the reason. Likewise, keeping your colon healthy can maintain and support both physical and mental well-being.There are many health conditions associated with an unwell colon. These range from unwanted gas to different types of terminal cancer. Colon and rectal cancer are among the most common types of cancer in the United States, with over 100,000 cases a year and growing.The most common colon health concerns include:Identifying colon concerns is difficult for the average person, and severe health conditions that affect the colon need to be diagnosed by a medical professional. However, there are some signs you may notice when experiencing less than optimal colon health.Signs of a weak or sick colon include:Because your colon processes food waste, it is constantly bombarded by toxins. These may include  from non-organic foods, toxins found in processed meats, or even environmental pollutants in the air and water. Left unchecked, these may accumulate and contribute to unwanted colon issues.  is one of the best ways to encourage your body’s internal detoxification processes and eliminate harmful organisms.While eating the right foods is always essential to your health, it’s especially critical to maintain a healthy colon. After years of research and experience, I have developed a colon cleanse diet plan that has helped many people. It can help enhance the results of any cleanse and encourages healthy energy levels and overall wellness.The full diet plan and suggested alternatives are included in the , but here are the basics anyone can follow—on or off the cleanse.There are three simple rules to follow with my colon cleansing diet.My research and experience have shown me that these are the best fruits to select when following the colon cleanse diet.A diet that supports a healthy colon should rely on three main things—fruits, vegetables, and water. While those are the staples, there are lots of delicious and nutritious foods you can add to your diet starting today to support your colon health.Fruits and berries provide water, fiber, and . Apples, bananas, and strawberries are a great place to start, and you may already have them at home. Each of these can provide a significant portion of your daily fiber needs. Citrus fruits like oranges and lemons are also a great digestive aid and give you a . Dried fruits like prunes and cranberries can also be beneficial for your colon and act as natural laxatives.Cruciferous vegetables are very high in dietary fiber, folic acid, calcium, vitamin K, vitamin C, , and antioxidants. They also contain a high amount of , which helps promote detoxification. Spinach, kale, garlic, bok choy, and arugula are just a few other vegetables you can add to your diet to improve your colon health.Herbs are an excellent way to supplement your diet with health-promoting nutrients. Some of the best herbs for the colon include chickweed, slippery elm, and peppermint. Each has properties that encourage cleansing and help soothe your digestive tract. These herbs can be eaten fresh or taken as an herbal supplement or tincture.Seeds and  and help keep you energized throughout the day. They are high in fiber, , protein, zinc and other nutrients your body needs to maintain your colon. Some of the best nuts include almonds, Brazil nuts, cashews, pistachios, walnuts, and hazelnuts. Great seed options include , pumpkin, sunflower, , and flax seeds.Beans and lentils are an excellent source of fiber and carbohydrates. They can help keep you regular and promote healthy digestion. Studies have shown that eating beans several times a week may even help prevent colon cancer. like kefir, , sauerkraut, and yogurt contain  that help your colon break down food and have beneficial gut cleansing effects. While there are many fermented foods to choose from that can introduce more probiotics into your system, low-sugar and non-dairy options are the best for your colon.For the best colon health, avoid foods that disrupt your digestive system and destroy beneficial . What you drink is critical, too. Coffee, sodas, and  won’t help your colon. Here are some of the worst foods for your colon.There are many good reasons you may want to . However,  when it comes to your colon, sugar is especially disruptive. Both traditional sugars and  can cause an imbalance of digestive bacteria or diarrhea and inflammation in some people.Processed foods typically contain a long list of additives and chemicals used to prolong shelf life and add texture or flavor. Avoid these whenever possible. Increasingly, additives, like emulsifiers, in processed foods have been linked to colon cancer and . The best way to avoid these additives, and other harmful chemicals, is buying certified organic foods that are raw or minimally processed.Alcohol is a known  that is bad for your health. It can damage the sensitive lining of your colon and inhibit the good bacteria along the digestive tract. While the occasional drink may not cause lasting harm, heavy drinking can cause severe and long-term health issues. and is hard on your digestive system. The increased risk and strain it puts on your colon are reason enough for many to avoid eating meat altogether. However, if you choose to include meat in your diet, you should, at least, reduce or eliminate red meat. Try eating vegetarian or vegan meals a few days each week. If you notice improvements to your health, increase the number of meat-free days.For many people with colon related issues, like irritable bowel syndrome and celiac disease,  wreaks havoc on the digestive system. Even if you don’t have one of these conditions, gluten may still contribute to inflation in your gut and colon. If you don’t want to cut out all grains from your diet, there are some great  alternatives like quinoa that also contain fiber and colon-friendly nutrients.Many people cannot get all the nutrition they need through their diet. Balancing your colon health is no different. Supplementing with the right vitamins and nutritional supplements can help you manage your colon health. Below are some of the best supplements for your colon.Following my colon cleanse diet has the potential to boost your body’s internal detoxification processes. However, in some cases, something more is needed. I developed  as a solution to the toxins and harmful organisms we are all exposed to. Oxy-Powder is a safe and effective colon cleanse product that uses the power of oxygen to gently cleanse and detoxify your entire digestive tract and relieve , gas, and .Have you tried a colon cleanse or do you eat some of the colon cleansing foods from the list above? Tell us about your experiences in the comments section below.
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.Meat is a carcinogen according to the World Health Organization.  I will bet they still recommend flouride in drinking water, and vaccines by the dozen.  The World Health Organization is a population control mechanism of The United NationsThank you for all the info on cleansing but is there an altered version of cleansing for people with adrenal fatigue for example? The diet of fruits doesn’t suit because of the natural sugars it contains and the fact that there is some need for foods that are sturdy like fatty foods to not feel faint.
Also, I suffer from a inherited condition that is called Peutz Jeghers syndrome which caused polyps to grow and they were removed by surgery about 30 years ago. I think it caused intestinal adhesion because it can take a long time to see watery stool after taking epsom salts when i did a liver flush (Moritz, haven’t done yours or any others yet as it did go well with this Moritz flush) I had to take pretty much of the epsom salts and that made me feel ill.
Maybe that’s because of the days prior to the flush day has to be well prepared to have succes on the flush day. I therefore have difficulty finding a good protocol for someone with bowel issues/adrenal fatigue (bloating, constipation, gas; all due to adrenal and thyroid issues that cause metabolic and endocrine problems and of course the Peutz Jeghers syndrome)
I also have a parasite that is causing a lot of problems such as leaky gut (Blastocystis hominis)
If there are tips or even an altered protocol I would really love to hear it!
Oh, I have OxyPowder at home and also epsom salts, but what is the reason that on the flush day only epsom salts are taken and no OxyPowder?Hi, Danny. We’ll be happy to help. Yes, we offer Diet Option #2 for the 6-day advanced colon cleanse which can be accessed through the following link: . You’ll notice that this option includes a small portion of fruits followed by a plant-based meal for lunch and dinner, and nuts and seeds may be eaten as a snack. Bear in mind that although this is not a meal plan, we provide a list of foods that will help everyone achieve best results. Should you require or follow a special diet, we suggest contacting your healthcare provider for advice. Overall, the dietary options are open and flexible to your needs. Additionally, Epsom salt is not required for the colon cleanse, and is only used for the 5-day liver cleanse protocol as seen here: . Epsom Salt is used on Day 5 (flush day) to relax and  allow the bile ducts of the liver to release toxic sludge from the liver and gallbladder. On the morning of Day 6 (the day after the cleanse), you will take 6 capsules of Oxy-Powder to ensure that your system is expediting the release of toxins. In the beginning we suggest performing a colon, liver, and kidney cleanse to clear the body’s pathways of elimination as this will help you achieve better results with the following harmful organism cleanse and chemical/ heavy metal detox. Here’s the entire overview of our program: .