      It’s no secret that processed foods aren’t the healthiest options for your diet, and processed meats are no exception. Since many of them contain dangerous chemicals that threaten health at the cellular level, they may, in fact, be one of the worst options. Living, raw foods trump meat every time, and the latest research is echoing this sentiment. According to a recent report published by the World Health Organization (WHO) on the International Agency for Research on Cancer, 22 experts from all over the world have concluded processed meat is a known human carcinogen.         A recently published analysis of over 800 studies by 22 nutrition experts has concluded that processed meat is a human carcinogen.  The analysis, published by the International Agency for Research on Cancer, reports, “Processed meat was classified as carcinogenic to humans (Group 1), based on sufficient evidence…” According to the experts, 50 grams of daily processed meat consumption increases the risk of colorectal cancer by 18%.    These findings are not new. Research has long shown the disastrous health consequences of consuming chemical-laden foods, .   Processed meats are the highest concern because of their preservatives, additives, and flavor enhancers. Sodium nitrate is a common processed meat preservative that produces N-nitroso, a known carcinogenic compound.  Yet, this food additive is still allowed to permeate our food supply. Fortunately today, there are many nitrate-free options available; however, nixing this stuff altogether may be the best bet for your health.     Although meat has its issues, let’s take a deeper look at the research regarding . Unfortunately, nutrition research is hardly ever conclusive, and establishing absolute certainty of cancer causality is almost impossible. Most processed meats contain chemical preservatives that prolong their shelf life. Some of these preservatives, like nitrates, are known probable human carcinogens.  Bacon, luncheon meats,  are all known to contain this preservative. So, one has to wonder if it is indeed the meat that’s the issue or the chemical preservatives that are used profusely in the modern food industry?    Cooking method and temperature may also play a role in producing carcinogenic compounds.  That being said, meat may have more inherent health risks compared with raw, unprocessed plant-based foods. With the larger health potentialities associated with meat, you’d be . Plant foods contain more vitamins, minerals, fiber, and  than meat anyway. Although many experts agree moderation is key, I’d go as far to say cut out processed meats altogether. Or, at least go the route of choosing preservative-free options whenever possible. This, along with increasing your vegetable, fruits, nuts, and seeds intake will surely create a greater nutrient intake balance.    Meat doesn’t just pose a health threat, it’s also threatening our climate. While it does provide vitamin B12, a necessary nutrient, today there are so many more options to getting meat-based nutrients than ever before. Our  is one example. Conventionally raised meat is injected with antibiotics and growth hormones, and the food many livestock eat is  and doused with pesticides. These factors affect the meat and impact the nutrition quality. If you’re on the fence, I suggest choosing a meat-free diet for one week just to see how you feel.    Have you given up meat? How do you feel? Most importantly, were there any health changes you noticed? Please give us your thoughts in the comments!  
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.I’ve given up meat many years ago, I feel great and the major change was on the gut (bowel movements).  There’s no reason for eat meat, at least by myself.  Thank you.I’m 70 and eat meat….most people say Im 55..I walk a bit n ride my Bike often… I’m a chicken farmer and eat 4 raw eggs a day with cream and maple syrup..Garden fresh veggies occasionally…
I listen to Alex Jones a bit and my uncle was a John Birch Society Founding member in the 60s….and pretty much what AJ is talking abt is factual.. That’s where i heard about Dr Group n his abilities…and he does some great things..
N i am another old Long-Haired hippi from decades past.Hello,
After watching the movie Earthlings i decided to cut meat out of my diet. I did that for a month then i started eating meat again and there was no diference at all. I think if your eating good meat from “organic farms” 1 or 2 times aweek with a Healthy diet its good from an Health aspect, moral is an other thing.I think each person nowadays is accustomed to eating processed food. I think personal discipline must be of concerned by everyone. In Positive Tranceformations, it helps a person become disciplined through behavioral modification that will eventually promote healthy weight loss and good choice of food intake.