While fasting has been part of human culture for thousands of years, only recently have we begun to investigate the therapeutic benefits of the practice. Interestingly, modern science has found a variety of verifiable positive effects fasting that has on human health.Water fasting, also known as a water cleanse, is a type of fasting in which you consume only water for a set period of time. Many cleansing diets are referred to as fasts, but in water fasting, you take in zero calories. It’s distinct from caloric restriction in which a person’s daily caloric intake is reduced by 20–40%.Of course, in the long-term, it’s impossible to live on water alone. Your body can’t function without calories and nutrients; they’re the batteries and building blocks of life. However, a carefully planned, short-term water fast can help reset certain biological processes and reinvigorate your health.Is Water Fasting Safe? In-depth Interview with Dr. Goldhamer & Dr. GroupLength: 93 minutesThe most common question people ask about water fasting is “why?” Why would you voluntarily subject yourself to hunger and nutritional deprivation? There are many reasons to fast. Some people do it for religious or spiritual reasons; others to raise awareness for a cause. However, there are also well-established . Intermittent fasting encourages weight loss, reduces body fat, lowers blood pressure and heart rate, and may even reduce the risk of serious conditions.In the early days of humanity, fasting was the norm. Before the invention of agriculture, we were all hunter-gatherers. We ate what we could, when we could. Grabbing a snack from the fridge whenever our stomachs rumbled was not an option. Survival required that we adapt to occasional food shortages.Our ancestors incorporated fasting into cultural traditions long after the invention of agriculture ended our hunter-gatherer days. Many religions participate in ritual fasting to this day. Those of Islamic faith fast from dawn until dusk during the month of Ramadan. Many Christians, Jews, Buddhists, Hindus, and peoples of many other faiths all take part in traditional fasting. Many great healers and thinkers, like Hippocrates, Plato, Socrates, and Aristotle have praised the benefits of fasting.Fasting isn’t just a way to demonstrate faith and devotion. There are health benefits to fasting as well.The benefit that interests most people is weight loss. While it may seem obvious that not eating will lead to less body fat, let’s take a closer look at exactly how water fasting can help.  is the state in which your body begins using energy from your internal fat stores instead of food. Water fasting helps your body reach ketosis more quickly than dieting. When you refrain from eating calories, your body is forced to burn fat cells for energy.While we know of no force on earth that can halt or reverse the aging process, it is certainly true that some people age more gracefully than others. Animal studies have found that  can extend lifespan by up to 80% over control groups. In humans, fasting has been found to reduce oxidative damage and inflammation.Autophagy is your body’s normal, natural process for recycling unnecessary or dysfunctional components. Water fasting forces your system into an autophagic state. With the severely reduced caloric intake, your body is forced to be more selective in which cells it protects.This means that fasting can encourage your body’s natural healing mechanisms to actively destroy and recycle damaged tissues, which may have a positive effect on several serious conditions.There is bountiful anecdotal evidence from people who claim that water fasting helped them overcome debilitating disorders. Current research backs up many of these claims. Animal studies have found that  caused a major reduction in the incidence of cancer and metabolic syndrome. Rodents placed on an intermittent fast had fewer incidences of neurological disorders.Of course, your body needs water for hydration, but is there more to it than that? Yes there is, according to Dr. Gerald H. Pollack, a professor of Bioengineering at the University of Washington in Seattle. Dr. Pollack and his team have made some discoveries that challenge our current understanding of water. They found that water behaves oddly within living cells. Close to the cell membrane, water organizes itself in a series of gel-like layers, rather than as a completely fluid solution.Dr. Pollack calls this “exclusion zone” (EZ) water, and it’s not the H2O we’re familiar with. EZ water is H3O2—three hydrogen atoms bonded to two oxygen atoms. So what does this mean for water fasting? Well, the reason this is called the exclusion zone is because it excludes things—things like contaminants and impurities. EZ water holds a negative charge and pushes contaminants away from itself. This discovery may have serious implications for cell signaling and detoxification, but more research needs to be done before we fully understand the connection.When fasting, planning is crucial. If you’ve never done a fast before, you shouldn’t just start a 30-day water cleanse this afternoon. There is a right way to do any cleansing diet. Fasting can be done safely, but it can also cause harm if done incorrectly. I recommend consulting with a trusted health care provider before performing any fast.When performing a water fast, it’s more important than ever to only consume fresh, clean, high-quality water. The effect of any contaminants in your water will only be magnified with no food in your stomach. I recommend you drink only  during your fast. You can also drink filtered water if you have a very good filtration system, but distillation goes further than filtration and removes all harmful organisms and chemicals.The most crucial step in any fast is to arrange your schedule. If possible, take time off work for the duration of the cleanse. Choose a length of time for your water fasting diet. Fasts can be done for any length of time up to about a month, but one, three, five, seven, and 10-day water fasts are the most common. Start small. If this is your first fast, try a 24-hour or a 3-day fast.If you perform any fast longer than five days, or you’re fasting to alleviate serious conditions, consider a supervised water fast. Many people choose a supervised fast because it offers a controlled environment, a team of professionals to make sure all goes well, and fellow fasters for emotional support. A fasting clinic can do tests to find the best fast for you, monitor your health during the fast, and help ease your transition back to solid foods.Before we get started, let’s go over a few precautions. You should not perform a fast if you are pregnant or lactating. A developing child is just too sensitive to nutritional deficiencies. Likewise, anyone with type 1 diabetes should choose a different . Fasting works best for people who are 20 lbs or more overweight. If you’re less than this, you can still try fasting, but plan a shorter duration for your first fast.Fasting is a time for rest, not exertion. Don’t plan on running any marathons during your fast. You shouldn’t even go to the gym. Your body will want to sleep more than usual—let it. Listen to your body; you may need 12 hours or more of sleep each night, and naps during the day. Do not be alarmed; this is part of the process. Relax and embrace it.Drink 2-3 quarts (or liters) of water every day. Don’t drink it all at once. Space it out over the course of the day to keep yourself properly hydrated and increase satiety.I won’t lie; the first couple days are going to be tough. You will likely experience some unpleasant symptoms like hunger, irritability, headaches, or disorientation. Fortunately, your body is resilient and should quickly adapt. You should start feeling better around the third or fourth day. Many people even report a feeling of euphoria at this point.Here are a couple fasting tips that can make your experience go a little more smoothly.Books are a faster’s best friend. When fasting, it’s important to both rest your body and keep your mind occupied. Now would be a good time to catch up on your reading. Reading is a fantastic low-energy way to keep your mind engaged.Be realistic about your goals. Why are you doing this cleanse? To help a particular health issue? To lose weight? Set simple, clear, achievable goals. and promotes a healthy connection between body and mind. Many people find that meditating can be a great way to help control cravings and strengthen resolve. Others report that feelings of hunger distract them from mediation. Find what works best for you.After the fast, you must resist the urge to overindulge, especially in the first few days. While you may dream of gorging yourself, your rebooted digestive system simply cannot handle it yet. At this point, rich food would cause you severe discomfort, or possibly serious complications.Instead, break your fast slowly. Start by drinking only juices and , then broths, and gradually add in solid foods. You can do this over the course of a day if you performed a very short fast, but for fasts of 3-7 days, wait at least 24 hours before reintroducing your system to solid foods. Breaking the fast can be a multi-day process for fasts longer than that.Fasting is a great way to reset your system and experience fantastic health benefits, but it’s not a way to cheat basic biology. Don’t expect to live a life of overindulgence and let the occasional water detox cancel out the damage.Rather, fasting is just one part of an overall healthy lifestyle. Other lifestyle choices you must make include eating plenty of fresh fruits and vegetables, exercising regularly, getting plenty of rest, effectively managing stress, and avoiding environmental toxins. Use your fast as an opportunity to abandon bad habits and add new healthy habits to your routine.Finally, if you decide that fasting isn’t for you, that’s fine. There are . Find a method of deep cleansing that suits you and make it part of your healthy lifestyle.
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.Dr. Group,Would it be okay to take my supplements during the fast, or should I abstain during this time?Water fast vs Colon and Liver cleanse. Im thinking the Liver and Colon cleanse does what the Water Fast does and more. Is that right?Hi, Jonathan. We find that it’s helpful to continue your supplement routine as it will provide important nutrients while you’re fasting. In fact, Dr. Group continued taking his supplements while performing his Ketogenic Fast Diet. Feel free to view additional information here: .Are there any recommendations on how often one should fast?I have gallstones which I control with my diet and supplements. I have read before that going a long time between meals causes the gallstones to form. What are your thoughts on this? I’ve always been afraid of fasting because I’m afraid it will create more.I am doing a 36 hour water (including supplements) fast once a week and weight loss is guaranteed. Have dinner as your last meal on the day prior to the fast and then no food the next day, ending the fast with breakfast the next morning. I’m not a big water person but I do drink more water than usual on the fasting day. It should help by detoxing also.thanks for the tip – I also heard that not eating after lunch one day – then waiting til dinner the following day is also good and psycologically easier to doThis is true, but only in certain situations. If you live a lifestyle that includes lots of food that produce bile (fatty foods, for instance) then your liver will be prone to making an adequate amount of bile to help break those foods down. The bile is made in the liver and stored in the gall bladder and the gall bladder squeezes out the bile as needed, per meal. So, if you are already storing a big bunch of bile in your gall bladder, then fasting OR eating only a diet full of foods that don’t require bile can cause that stored bile to just sit there, which is what eventually turns the bile into “stones”. The best way to avoid this is to SLOWLY decrease your bile production over many days until you can safely fast without having high risk of making problematic stones. That being said, nearly every gall bladder has a bunch of stones in them. As long as they are small enough, they typically flush out and are eliminated harmlessly. I have had gallbladder attacks from jumping into an hCg diet (that is only 500 cal/day), as well as from pigging out on fatty/fried foods, etc. So, don’t be afraid of fasting; just don’t do it with a full gallbladder. I’ve found that if I do get an attack, eating 1/3-1/2 of a head of Iceberg lettuce halts the attack pretty much by the time I’ve finished eating it. (It has to be iceberg, but I’m not sure why.) Anyway, my guess is that the lettuce causes my liver to produce some fresh bile (maybe even a different kind?) and as it enters the gallbladder and surrounds the stone, it soothes the gallbladder. But I don’t claim to know this as a fact. I just know it works like a champ for me! Good luck!euphoria , yeah that`s what i felt at third day of water fastingThanks for info!I have semester exams (the really big ones where you have to study everything they taught you at college for 3 months) From 17 days as i write this comment. Should I do it?maybe you refer to intermittent fastingThis article mixed water fasting with intermittent fasting. I know they maybe just copy paste it, but need to be edited to fit the exact contentyoure WRONG — u need to reed more cerefully sistai have read it twiceI`ve been researching a lot on water fasting and get to know that water fast can reduce blood pressure. Can you please help me understand better on how water fasts regulates blood pressure? How does doing water fasts can lower our blood pressure?Hi GHC Support, the Ketogenic Fast Diet it is not the same as a water fast. On last event ” The Truth about cancer” Dr. Group said – only water will be the best. Can you ask him, please, again? Thank youHi, Angelika. Thanks for following-up with. Yes, our process has changed and now we only recommend drinking water and no supplements throughout a water-only fast. For additional information, feel free to contact .I’m on day 16 of my water fast.  The past few days I’ve been feeling like I did the 1st two days of the fast & actually a little yuckier.  I’m nauseated, have a stomach ache, a head ache, horrible heartburn.  Is this normal this late in the process?can i do this if im under 18I hope all is well but I would suggest breaking the fast. Listen to your body. Being hungry is one thing but if you are feeling that bad you don’t want to hurt yourself just to finish it. You may need some electrolytes. Perhaps some bone broth might help?Please advise if I can take my medications. I have nerve damage in my arm and legs from back & neck problem. Have had many surgeries. Pain is at times off the chart, but I’d like to do a fast. Help me…Hi, Jennifer. Generally, it’s recommended to stay away from supplements and
medication as this will activate digestion and stop the regenerative process. However, in this situation it’s best to work with your prescribing practitioner before discontinuing your medication. Meanwhile, you can try following an intermittent fast before doing a water-only fast; here’s another helpful article: .Hi Dr. Group. It seems like the water fast would be a good time to also do a parasite cleanse. Is there any reason why I couldn’t do a Parasite cleanse using something like Living Defense at the same time that I am doing my water fast?     Also do you recommend using the DNA force during the water fast? if so how many pills per day?Finally, I know its fine to add some lemon or lime juice to the water or apple cider vinegar.  What about a little bit of Stevia  since Stevia is zero calorie?  Thanks!Hi, Pentheus. Dr. Group suggests removing all supplements from your diet as they may interfere with the regenerative process while fasting. So, it’s best to take a break on Living Defense (aka Paratrex) and DNA Force (Cell Fuzion). As for water additives, we’ll be updating our records soon since Dr. Group has discovered that it’s best to only drink pure water–no lemon, ACV or stevia as these items will also trigger digestion and interfere with the fasting process.I know taking vitamins is not recommended but I was wondering if putting Sole in your water is ok? Also I take it black coffee is a no-no?Colon cleanses have been proven through legitimate studies to do literally nothing productive that the body doesn’t do naturally if given a healthy diet and exercise, fasting promotes autophagy which is a much more metabolically productive detox and doesn’t cost you anything.Hi, Christina. Dr. Group only recommends drinking pure water as any type of additive–sole included– will trigger digestion and interfere with the degenerative process. Coffee is also not recommended.Hi I’ve been slowly preparing for the last 3 weeks for a fast of this nature.I have 3 questions:
1.) Would it be alright to take bentonite as a supplement while on this fast?
2.) How is the water fast different than the Master Cleanse?
3.) I read your comments that a squirt of lemon could be good for the water fast.. how about a whole lemon?  I ask because over the last few weeks I’ve been preparing for this water fast by attempting to balance my pH levels. As I suspected I had a lot of toxicity and the lemon helping alkalize my body has been amazing on so many levels. I muscled tested for this as well and it proved positive to continue with the lemon. I wonder if I could continue by at least taking the whole lemon (versus a squirt) in water each morning like I have been, or would this be counterproductive to the results that a pure water fast would provide?Thank you for sharing your research in this article and I look forward to your response.Hi, Grace_Jones. Since supplements will trigger digestion, we recommend discontinuing the use of bentonite clay while fasting. As for water-only fasting, it allows the body to quickly enter an autophagic state since you are only consuming water, and in this phase, your body will feed itself on the most impure, toxic materials. Since you are still consuming calories on the Master Cleanse, it’s considered less effective at inciting autophagy. We also only recommend drinking pure water to achieve best results, however, if you choose to include lemon juice, it’s best to only use small amounts if any.Hello. I am on day 12 of a water fast. It has been going pretty smooth. I was wondering however, if my immune system is supposed to be so strong right now to be able to heal issues in the body. Why do I keep getting fever blisters? Thanks, TinaHi, Tina. As your body enters ketosis, the elimination of fat has a detoxifying effect on the body. This is because you naturally use fat to store toxic metals and toxins to protect the rest of your body. As you begin to burn more fat, and thus release more toxins, you may notice a difference in your complexion and other signs indicative of a
healing crisis. Here you have more information: .Hi,Thank you so much for your thorough response. It was very informative and has given
me not only the answer  I was looking for but also it has opened new doors for me
to explore.I appreciate your time and willingness to share what you know!Thanks again!The article is about water fasting, but refers to how intermittent fasting increases the life span of animals. Since water fasting is a deeper cleanse and is more beneficial for people are are actually sick from too much GMO’s and processed foods. I don’t think they are starving animals for 21 or more days to test the results of water fasting on animals, so intermittent fasting seems the most humane way to test the effects of fasting.Water fasting may leave you a little exhausted sometimes, but it gives you mental clarity that you have never experienced before and that may help you with college.Howdy! currently on day 5 of a water fast After completing the 9 step body cleanse though GHC.
On day 5 and I’m not sleeping much, I’m up every few hours urinating. I have been getting 5-6hrs a night without naps. My head is tired, but body is not as much…The article refers to sleeping more – what could this mean and what shall I do?
How long should I wait after breaking my water fast to try and safely concieve?
Also, any other tips of things I can do to set my body up for success bearing children?, Lord willing that is 🙂Hi, Charree! As your body enters ketosis, the elimination of fat has a detoxifying effect on the body. So, you may experience a temporary healing crisis where the most common indications include fatigue,
headache, minor rash, lack of mental clarity, joint or muscle ache,
irritability, difficulty sleeping (or sleeping too much), and mood swings. Although everyone will have a different experience, here’s a helpful article we often provide to our customers: . At this moment, there is no set time to rest after a fast before conceiving, however, Dr. Group recommends transitioning back to a healthy diet in half the time it took you to complete the fast. For example, if you fast for 6 days, then take 3 days to transition to a normal diet. For more information on Dr. Group’s re-feeding program, please visit: . Body cleansing, fasting, and following a healthy diet are all great starting points on your new journey. However, if you’re looking to add anything else, you may consider Female Fuzion () which contains a proprietary blend of herbs to regulate proper hormone balance. The organic maca root and organic ashwaganda ingredients in particular are intended to promote reproductive health.Thanks for sharing its a truly information share and know water fast all body problem reduce like blood pressure, hart attack etc.Hi I’ve done 3-4 day fasts in the past and am starting another one tomorrow. I’ve heard taking sodium is ok?? Also I’m on antibiotic for reoccurring cellulitis in my face. This is one of the main reasons I’m doing this fast right now. Do I continue using the antibiotics? I’m on doxycycline and prednisone for the swelling.Did the fever blisters go away??How long do you recommend doing a whole food, plant based diet before starting the Water Fast?