Bacteria in your gut might sound like a bad thing, but your gut actually uses bacteria to process food into energy. We call these helpful bacteria . Most people have heard the term in yogurt ads, but that’s about it. What are probiotics and what do they mean to your body?    It all starts in your gut, the system in your body responsible for digestion. Proper digestion is essential to your health and probiotics are essential to your gut. When bacteria are out of balance, it can cause complications such as:If any of these sound familiar, it’s time to get your gut health back on track. Here are five awesome tips for promoting your gut health and well-being.In 1907, Nobel Laureate, Elie Metchnikoff introduced the concept of probiotics. He published a groundbreaking study that linked longevity with consuming fermented milk that contained Lactobacilli, a bacterial strain that produces lactic acid and helps maintain healthy intestinal microflora. Today, probiotics supplements are available at health food, grocery, and online stores. When choosing a probiotic, look for these qualities: is the probiotic I recommend. It’s a blend of billions of live and active cultures from 23 probiotic strains and contains prebiotics for extra support.Antibiotics kill bacteria. Although that includes the bad bacteria that can make you sick, it also includes the good bacteria your body needs. This disruption of intestinal harmony can cause a lack of diversity among bacteria that’s sure to affect your health. can introduce good bacteria to your gut but know that it’s better to make your own. Store-bought options are usually pasteurized, which kills good bacteria. Some of the best fermented foods for promoting gut health include:Among the many issues caused by  (inflammation, weight gain, hormonal imbalance…), it also promotes the growth of bad bacteria and upsets gut flora balance.Much like the spinal cord, neurons cover your intestinal wall where they send information throughout your body. The existence of the brain/gut connection makes it clear that stress can be linked to gut health. When stressed, your brain sends messages to your gut in the form of chemicals. These chemicals affect how well your gut works.It’s amazing how much better you can feel about things if you just take some time to stop, breathe, and concentrate. If you need to use a mantra, go for it!Aromatherapy harnesses the power of plant-sourced essential oils. Many people attest that this  helps them manage stress.Physical activity affects stress and mood. If you’re feeling stressed, being active can help you overcome it!What you eat can have a significant impact on your gut health.  can help.Laughter can relieve stress by producing endorphins and lowering the stress hormone cortisol. Find a funny friend or turn on a comedy to produce a relieving chuckle. Your gut will thank you!Supplements are an excellent option for maintaining a healthy gut. You can find individual supplements based on your specific needs, but opting for a complete bundle of gut health supplements could save money. Global Healing Center’s own  combines our very best supplements for overall gut health.VeganZyme® is a digestive aid that provides your gut with the enzymes it needs to properly process proteins, carbohydrates, fats, and other essential nutrients. Oxy-Powder® cleanses your gut and helps flush your digestive system of accumulated toxins and waste. Aloe Fuzion™ soothes and comforts your gut while encouraging nutrient absorption, and nourishing your microflora. Floratex™ helps balance your microbiome with a comprehensive mix of live probiotic and prebiotics. You can also enhance the power of the Gut Health Kit with optional upgrades—Turmeric to help your colon heal itself at a cellular level and Bragg’s Organic Raw Apple Cider Vinegar to promote regularity and aid in detoxification.What do you do to maintain a healthy gut? Have any stress-relieving tips? Let us know in the comments.
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.This is great advice! All of which I try to practice daily. I really love the 5 tips on how to lower stress, especially laughter. I feel it’s hard to remember what a good laugh can do for the spirit, and how lightening up can do wonders for one’s health. Thank you for the blog post.I took probiotics for years with little effect. Then started on homemade ferments. I have not been sick in over a year for the first time in over 16 years.What happens after 30 days? Can one just stop taking all these products but maintain the results through diet alone, or are these a lifestyle change that requires more of these products in order to maintain gut health?Hi, Heather. If this is in regards to the Gut Health
Kit, the 30-Day program is intended to reset your digestive and immune system, and if you’re fairly healthy, then you can repeat the protocol about 2-3 times per year to maintain your results. But yes, diet is key in support gut health. You can simply try taking Oxy-Powder for maintenance to prevent bloating or occasional constipation. Here you have more information about Oxy-Powder and our Body Cleansing Diet: 
Tablespoon of Bentonite clay with psyllium husks in warm water first thing in the morning.  This draws and flushes out positively-charged particles, such as heavy-metals and unwanted organisms.  Follow with fresh juice from half a lemon and1/2 tsp. baking soda. Mix before adding 8oz.of warm water.  Follow with green tea spiked with the other half of lemon, raw apple cider vinegar and stevia.  Followed by bone broth.  Do your workout before your breakfast at noon.  Stay off the sugar and high carbs, eat plenty of veggies and good quality fats like coconut oil and avocados, then you’ll be good to go!Oh, and watch your guy health improve while melting off unwanted fat!Gut healthHow long should this be done Peter?They have gotten way better and more potent. I take Renew Life ultra potent 100 billion, with great results. I have taken many with crappy results too.