You’ve heard you should drink eight glasses of water every day. While that’s a good baseline for most people, the exact amount can vary depending on body size, physical activity, and other factors.  Sixty percent of your body is water and water is part of many, if not all, internal processes.  , the body uses it as a joint lubricant, and it helps flush waste and toxins. Studies show that people who get more water have greater energy and focus more easily. The Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center even reported that men and women who drank less water developed colorectal cancer at higher rates than the men and women who drank more water.  Suffice to say, staying hydrated is important to your health.Some people say water lacks taste and can be boring, right? Well, it doesn’t have to be. Adding a little lemon to your water is a great way to add flavor and . It’ll also help cleanse your body of toxins and waste. The American Cancer Society recommends hot lemon water for alleviating constipation and clearing the bowels.  Let’s look at four more benefits of lemon water.Phytonutrients are the organic compounds responsible for the health benefits offered by plants. The phytonutrients in lemons, specifically, have antioxidant and antibiotic properties. Lemons also contain limonin, a compound found in citrus fruits with possible anti-viral and anti-obesity effects. Citrus fruits like lemons and oranges contain , a dietary fiber that supports digestion. Lemons actually contain more pectin than oranges as well as high levels of citric acid.   supports digestion, as does pectin, which slows down the speed that food leaves the stomach and improves the way it’s broken down. One study found that five grams of pectin mixed with orange juice produced a greater feeling of fullness after eating. This might help reduce the amount of food consumed and support weight loss efforts. Immune cells need vitamin C and medical experts have  to boost the immune system.  Vitamin C also neutralizes free radicals, creates energy, and defends against certain environmental toxins. Vitamin C  that can be caused by the accumulation of toxins. The National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey reported that women who consumed more vitamin C had stronger, firmer skin, less dryness, and fewer wrinkles. Lemons  and kidneys. In animal studies, the pectin in lemons lowered liver cholesterol levels and supported normal liver function.  Polyphenols, plant compounds that promote liver enzyme activity and regulate metabolism, are likely the cause. Some studies have found that the citric acid in lemon juice can help discourage kidney stones.  One study found lemon juice worked as well as potassium citrate for urinary calcium stones. Lemon juice is a powerful way to clear toxins, support the immune system, improve digestion, and protect the liver and kidneys. But it’s just the tip of the detoxification and cleansing iceberg. For a thorough, gentle cleanse, try an oxygen based colon cleanser such as .Great health starts in your gut. When waste and toxins accumulate in your colon, it puts pressure on your liver and kidneys. Set yourself up for the best possible health and keep your colon clean and detoxed. Boost your results by adding a natural cleansing agent like lemon juice to your day.Do you have any tips for using lemon juice to cleanse and detox? Leave a comment below and share your thoughts.
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.Why warm water with lemon over cold water with lemon?  Personally, my first beverage of the day is ice cold water with some organic lemon juice.I juice 1 – 2 organic lemons to get 3 – 4 ozs. of lemon juice. I then mix this with four parts purified tepid water. You MUST dilute lemon juice with water as pure lemon juice will destroy the enamel on your teeth and once that is gone, it is GONE. It NEVER comes back. By doing this in the morning, I have at least 2 bowel movements each day, sometimes three. The first is shortly after arising in the morning and the second 12 hours later. The evacuations are total and leave you feeling “empty”, in a manner of speaking. To think that so many people waste their money on artificial laxatives and dangerous pharmaceuticals to relieve their constipation when they only need to drink lemon water once a day shows just how much Big Pharma has enslaved people.I feel bad to express this but I have long suffered erectile dysfunction and the self conscious aspects of it.. I was terrified to meet women with the fear of embarrassment. I tried pills to try cure it and although they occasionally helped, it never tackled the root of the problem & they really are not good for my health to take for a long period. I did a lot of online research into methods to cure my ED and they never work until i met one of the best Doctor according to my description i never believed him thinking he was a scam till i got his product not quite long, I am now completely cured,I will advice you give him a try too if you are suffering from ED on Avoid drinking lemon in water that is ice cold because it may hinder the digestive benefits of the lemon. In addition, even though your body will heat up the ice cold lemon water, it requires more energy and more work for the body.Thank you for your response.  It is appreciated.I used to drink lemon in my water everyday due to the great benefits.  But, lately I have been using lemon essential oil – is this just as potent as pure lemon juice and will it work as well to destroy the toxins?I juice 1 – 2 organic lemons to get 3 – 4 ozs. of lemon juice.Amen. Funny that I just read your comment, as prior to reading this I was saddened when I sat and considered how there are almost no detox hospitals in America that offer you things from God’s green earth for detoxing.
And when you need one of the few useful, yet toxic drugs they make for terrible anxiety and restlessness, they don’t give it to you because they “don’t want you to get addicted and lose their liscense.”i am praying that God helps these poor doctors who don’t know what they’re doing. Also, for all the greedy men and women to be renewed.  Thanks for sharing, I’ll have to try this. I thought I’d answer a few common questions through my own research on lemon water.It doesn’t have to be warm but it can help flush the digestive system and re-hydrate the body. Plenty of people prefer ice cold lemon water and this is fine. It just comes down to personal preference really.YES. Please don’t make the mistake of doing the lemon detox / master cleanse. It will destroy your metabolism and many experience rapid weight gain when they start eating normally again. If weight loss is your goal, the 3 week diet works really well combined with lemon water every morning. It wont let me post a link but you can find the whole plan if you google search the following with quotation marks: “19 pounds 3 weeks”You can… but lemon water is a great way to replace a coffee drinking habit. If you’re an avid coffee drinking, try going cold turkey for a few weeks and you’ll most likely find that you feel 10x better drinking lemon water instead.Hope this helps somebody out there. I know I had these questions when I first discovered lemon water.Lemons are so good for you.Is it really much better for you to drink it warm? Its a lot nicer cold out the fridgeTomas…
I have only just started adding pure lemon juice to a glass of water..and have at this point..5 glasses a day..its already taken away some stomach cramps..and improved my digestion system..I in South Africa..I an elderly pensioner of 66…(white)…incidently..I was experiencing some minor pain when depositing stools ..but this seems to have gone..as when it enters the exit part…No blood has been present..and my stools are getting normal…
summary..every morning..I have a glass of lemon water..1 st thing when I wake up..and drink this solution..with each meal..so far..so good!!Just a question.. does pure lemon juice store bought work the same as a fresh lemon? And what should the ratio be?