Most people are aware that aloe vera soothes dry skin, sunburn, and other skin irritations , but not many know of the many health benefits the plant offers when it’s consumed. For instance, recent studies have shown that , encourages normal blood sugar, and reduces redness and swelling. Best of all it’s natural and totally safe! More and more products are being created to help people consume aloe vera. One of the most popular is aloe vera juice. The benefits are many, and here are some of the most notable:Surprised? There’s actually more. It’s because aloe vera contains a wealth of nutrients, like vitamins A, C, E, and B12, as well as minerals like potassium, zinc, and magnesium.  It also provides powerful antioxidants, helps to balance metabolism , promotes oral health  boosts the immune system , and even supports normal circulation and blood pressure . It’s been reported to promote heart health.  In another study, aloe encouraged normal blood sugar. Even though aloe vera juice is ingested, it still contains many nutrients that make it great for your skin! It remains a powerful tool for irritated skin due to burns, minor cuts and severe dryness.  Even when consumed, many of aloe vera’s properties still pass through the body and ultimately aid the skin in the same ways as aloe vera gels and lotions do when they are applied topically. Now, no one is saying that aloe vera is some magic , but the plant does contain a wealth of nutrients that benefit those who use it.In addition to its many internal health benefits, drinking aloe vera juice is great because it enables you to ingest the plant’s nutrients without dealing with the unpleasant taste of fresh aloe. It also helps to take the guesswork out of what you should actually consume, as the aloe’s  vary greatly. I should also note that there are over 400 different species of aloe, each with their own chemical composition. If you are looking to consume aloe vera juice or any other product, be sure to verify that you’re looking at things made with aloe vera and not any other species of the plant. There are many products to choose from, so be sure to evaluate them carefully before choosing one to take. Of course, if none of the juices you find quite meet your taste, you do always have the option of making your own.It’s not hard to make your own aloe vera juice, but before you start, here are a few points to consider. First, you should only use organic aloe vera leaves and make absolutely sure to find a plant marked as “edible”. You can either buy leaves that are already cut or  full plant. Assuming you are using a whole aloe vera plant, you’ll remove the leaf or leaves you’d like to use from the plant. As long as you’re careful, you won’t harm your aloe. After all, this is a resilient species that has a natural ability to heal itself.If you are removing the leaves from a plant, you absolutely must use a sharp knife. You want to leave a clean cut so that the plant heals swiftly. Begin by cutting the leaf off near the base of the plant. Focus on removing the desirable inner leaf gel. This will need to be done whether you’ve purchased individual aloe leaves or you have a whole plant. Start by splitting your leaf in half lengthwise. This will reveal the juices inside the leaf. Next, scoop out the gel (and only the gel)! Be sure to avoid the firm yellow areas, as this is what we consider the outer leaf. Remember, this does contain different properties and is not the desirable substance you’re after for your juice. Try to limit damage to the outer leaf or rind, .Once you’ve separated the inner leaf gel, place it into a blender. Add fresh lemon, lime, orange juice or any other citrus flavor to meet your taste. This is a great opportunity to add more organic fruit to your diet. Before you blend, make sure you have about equal amounts of your aloe vera gel and your citrus component. I recommend 2-3 tablespoons of each.After you’ve blended your original mixture, add it to a cup of cold water. If you find the taste to be too strong, feel free to add more water to dilute. You might also consider adding a splash of  to help add even more nutrients and a bit more zip to the taste.Even though aloe vera does offer many health benefits, you don’t want to get too carried away with taking it. Everything in moderation, right? For one, aloe vera leaves contain a compound called aloin. Aloin can induce a harsh laxative effect.  And when taken too frequently, some compounds in aloe vera can create an electrolyte imbalance. If aloe vera juice is not for you, you can still enjoy its many health benefits. Today, you can get aloe vera dietary supplements in capsule form. But remember to check out the ingredients before you take anything! Not all aloe vera supplements are created equally. They do not contain the same amount of nutrients, proteins, and plant compounds so each can have a very specific effect on your body. Evaluate the ingredients and use this information to help you choose the supplement best suited to give you the benefits you seek. For the maximum health benefit, look for supplements that feature , a potent plant chemical found in the inner aloe vera leaf.There are many products out there and it creates a lot of confusion. I set out to put an end to this once and for all, and the end result is my new, bio-active aloe vera supplement, . Made with vegan capsules, Aloe Fuzion is a 100% certified organic product that contains only the inner leaf of the aloe vera plant. It actually delivers the most potent form of aloe vera available in today’s market.Aloe Fuzion actually contains the highest levels of acemannan that you will find. In addition to acemannan, Aloe Fuzion contains important vitamins, minerals, amino acids and enzymes specifically designed to promote your health. It’s also worth noting that there is no aloin. If you are looking to boost your health by adding aloe vera to your diet,  is a convenient and effective solution
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.Thank you so much for article on aloe. I dont drink enough of it but would like to.And all of the footnotes for further research. Awsome!I have seen incredible benefits by using the whole leaf juice by Lakewood brand. I have made my own Aloe Vera inner leaf juice by following the method described by Dr. Edward. It makes awesome juice by mixing pure lemon juice according to use own taste.
Tariq Virk, ChicagoThank you so much for this article on Aloe Vera  But i am Also A blooger of Aloe Vera Juice on Sarvliving