For their role in heart and cardiovascular health, walnuts have received a great deal of attention in recent years. However, they aren’t the only healthy nut option around. When it comes to nutrition, pecans can go toe-to-toe with walnuts in the way they protect the heart and mind, support weight loss, and promote weight management. In fact, pecans may even have the edge over walnuts as the healthier nut…      In one corner, we have pecans. In every ounce, or about 19 pecan halves, you consume just under 200 calories. That same ounce delivers nearly 27% of your recommended daily intake of heart . A single ounce serving of pecans is low in carbs weighing in at 3.93g, or about 1% your daily value. One ounce does, however, provide 5% of your daily protein recommendation. Plus, pecans are also loaded with vitamins A, B, and E, potassium, magnesium, immune-boosting zinc, and .    In the other corner, we have walnuts. One ounce of walnuts has 185 calories, 24% of your unsaturated fats with heart-protecting omega-3 fatty acids, 3.89 carbs per ounce, and a whopping 9% of your daily protein. Like pecans, walnuts feature vitamins A, E, and B vitamins like folate. They’re also mineral rich with important antioxidants.    How do pecans and walnuts stack up head-to-head? Walnuts get a lot of press, but I think you’ll see nutrient for nutrient, pecans have the edge. Here’s a table to help you decide for yourself.    , pecans, and even chestnuts deliver the highest value of antioxidants of the edible nuts.  With their vitamins and minerals, they make for a nutritious snack loaded with amazing benefits for your health. The Harvard Gazette reported men and women who ate  daily were 20% more likely to live longer and were more slender and trim than those who didn’t.  Here’s what they can do for you:    When it comes to pecans or walnuts, you can’t go wrong. They make healthy snacks (or pies!) and add flavor to any meal. They’re both loaded with vitamins, minerals, antioxidants, and essential fatty elements that nourish your body and support healthy weight as compared to processed foods. Lastly, vegetarians and vegans can get the protein they need by eating these healthy nuts daily.  
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.I think walnuts actually have the edge, nutrient for nutrient, according to your table.In Canada, the price of walnuts is half the price of pecans.  Walnuts is cheaper, it should be
better.The source you cited for the claim that nuts can help control weight says in the abstract that eating nuts didn’t lead to weight gain. There’s a pretty big difference in these two contents.