In my opinion, among nuts, pecans are the best and have been one of my favorite snacks for years; they’re also one of the healthiest. In fact, after looking at 277 different nuts and foods, USDA researchers say pecans are the most antioxidant-rich nut around. On top of this, pecans deliver more oleic acid than olive oil, contain 90% unsaturated (heart-healthy) fats, are low sodium, cholesterol free, contain essential vitamins and minerals, and have important alpha and gamma-tocopherol forms of vitamin E.All of this adds up to a powerful little nut with big health benefits! Here we will explain 7 of the major health benefits of pecans.Men and women who regularly eat nuts have lower rates of , according to researchers. Antioxidants like those in Pecans neutralize free radicals before they can corrupt low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol and other proteins that block your arteries, making them stiff and rigid. This reduces stress on your heart and keeps it strong as you age.Pecans are similar to other nuts by potentially soothing internal irritation. Here are some of the ways it does this:Plus, pecans have vitamins A, C, the B-complex, and vitamin K, not to mention calcium, zinc, and potassium. As you soothe irritation, you reduce your risk of heart disease, arthritis, and Alzheimer’s disease – all diseases linked to internal irritation and swelling.It’d be overzealous to say pecans are the answer to cancer, but one important antioxidant in pecans has shown some promise in overall prevention. Studies show gamma tocopherol, a powerful antioxidant and one of the most potent forms of vitamin E, protects men against prostate cancer. Research from Purdue University suggests vitamin E offers protection against lung cancer too.When your cells work right, you age more gracefully. That’s why everyone’s always talking about antioxidants. And that’s what research continues to show. A recent five-year French study reported those who consumed antioxidant-rich foods and supplements enjoyed better health as they aged, especially men. Pecans make it easy. They’re nutritious, tasty, and make a great snack. And you don’t need to eat a ton–a handful of pecans every now and then will do the trick.Nuts like pecans contain the vitamins, unsaturated fats, minerals, and fatty acids you need in a small, low-calorie serving. When combined, all these nutrients will help you lose weight and keep it off. According to a National Health study from 2005-2010, adults who eat nuts regularly have a smaller waist size and lower Body Mass Index (BMI) than those who don’t.Beta-sitosterol, a plant chemical, reduces blood cholesterol levels. In pecans, beta-sitosterol makes up 90% of these antioxidant plant chemicals. Studies show whole pecans lower LDL cholesterol by 30% within 2 hours of eating them, and regular consumption lowers overall cholesterol levels.A study published in the  reports tree nuts, like pecans, help with blood pressure management. Researchers reported nuts significantly  in participants who did not suffer from diabetes. Now that’s not to say diabetics didn’t benefit from the nuts, just that they didn’t show the same blood pressure control as the other participants.How many pecans should you eat? Should you eat whole pecans or pecan halves? And how many calories are in a serving? Here’s a table to help you decide the best serving size for your nutrition needs.When it comes to any food, organic is best. They are not coated in  and herbicides, so look for raw, organic pecans for the greatest benefits. Eat them right from the bag as a snack or crush them and toss them on a salad.If you find raw pecans hard to digest, don’t worry, you can still enjoy them. Here’s what to do:Take 4 cups of raw pecans and put them in a large bowl. Cover them with filtered water and mix in a tablespoon of sea salt. Cover and let it sit for about 8 hours. Then drain, and spread them on a baking sheet. Heat them in your oven at the lowest temperature and stir them around a few times to dry them evenly.How do you enjoy pecans? Leave a comment below and share your tips.
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.I love pecans !!!  They are the best snack in the world. People eat chips and dip and stuff loaded with sugar and they are only bringing on Hear Disease !  I eat 2 small handfuls a day, even though they run 4.99 a small bag , I get the pecan halves raw and I weighed 195 lbs, high blood pressure and last visit to doctor 2 months ago I was informed that I have to cut all fried foods out of my diet, Frying oil that is not extra virgin olive oil is terrible !  You are being poisoned by fast food restaurants in America , loaded with sugar and crystalized cotton oil ( CRISCO ) is causing so much heart disease in America it is not funny. I eat Atlantic Salmon twice a week, Don’t buy anyfish products from the Pacific Ocean, That Japanese Nuclear Power plant has polluted the Pacific an has been leaking mass amounts of Radiation since 2011. Try to get fish from the Atlantic Ocean. After cutting out sugar, fried foods, Steak and Potatoes loaded with soar cream and bacon bits ,preservatives, eating salads in between, and pecans, bananas , Cherries, not the kind in the jar ! Strawberries, rasberries, blueberries, cranberries, broccoli , spinach , basically all healthy foods I have gone down to 178 lbs. At 5 foot 7 , I figure this is a good weight to maintain, next blood test in Feb of 2016 and I am hoping all the bad LDL and gout, and triglicerides will be back to Normal. Basically the food industry in America is causing Americans to be fat and die of Heart Disease !Saying that “Omega-3 fatty acids supply proteins,” is a misnomer. Omega-3 fats supply essential fats, as the name implies, not protein.Sams has a gallon bag for $12.99