Organic raw apple cider vinegar (ACV) is made from organically grown apples and retains many of their beneficial components because organic raw apple cider vinegar is not pasteurized. Organic raw apple cider vinegar undergoes two fermentation processes where it produces enzymes and life-giving nutrients that make it a nutritious powerhouse.Benefits of Apple Cider VinegarLength: 4 minutesThe beneficial ingredients in organic raw apple cider vinegar give it the power to help us look and feel better and more energized. Some of the beneficial ingredients in organic raw apple cider vinegar include:Clear vinegar has none of the benefits of organic raw apple cider vinegar. During its processing process, it’s stripped of everything beneficial and can even be detrimental to your health since it is dead instead of alive.Only organic raw apple cider vinegar has the “mother of vinegar” that makes the vinegar so beneficial. The “mother of vinegar” consists of living nutrients and bacteria. You can see it settled on the bottom of the bottle. It contains all the healthy ingredients so be sure to shake the bottle well before pouring.Mixing organic raw apple cider vinegar with organic honey (another powerhouse superfood) produces a tasty treat that offers many health benefits. It’s a great drink for fast energy. In a large pitcher, combine: tastes great, supports energy levels, boosts the immune system, and much more.You can also find organic raw apple cider vinegar in tablet or capsule form. I do not recommend those sources because they are dried and not alive like the liquid.Organic raw apple cider vinegar is strong; I recommend diluting it with water before consuming. One tablespoon per 32 ounces of water is a good ratio to make a general wellness tonic.I use  on a daily basis and recommend it over every other brand on the market.
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.It’s weird, because I just recently learned about the benefits of apple cider vinegar. My aunt told me to try the exact product you have listed above… and I have no complaints. The main benefit I’ve personally experienced, is that my skin looks alot better than it ever did.Apple Cider Vinegar or ACV has been around for a long time yet many doctors do not prescribe it for ailments that it is perfectly capable of treating.I think the simple reason might be that medical doctors are more apt to prescribe medicines than natural remedies.Pharmaceutical companies spend a lot of money getting their medicines and pills approved and they certainly wouldn’t want you using the inexpensive, unpatentable alternative of ACV instead of buying their expensive cures and treatments.The only thing I have against apple cider vinegar is the taste, I do have a hard time consuming it.My parents raised us on this wonderful remedy.  My Dad would take it every day.  He looks very good for 84.  It has been 48 years of consuming this product.It was always used if you ate something that may have been bad.  Saved a lot of people’s lives when they are some bad fish.  Plus if you are getting sick, it may stop the flu.There are a lot more things that it is good for but would take a lot more space.It is the old time remedy for many things and very inexpensive for what it does.I use Manuka Honey with it for a drink.Glad you are promoting this product.Love your website.I have never used apple cider vinegar before, but I remember my grandma always used to have it in her kitchen.After reading the article, I am surely going to make sure I always have it around too. I really didn’t know how useful it was. Thats for posting that. Great Article!What a wonderful post thanks for the info doc! Here are some more health benefits of apple cider vinegar other people may not know about:Some of the many nutrients that ACV contains are calcium, iron, potassium, magnesium and phosphorous. ACV also contains pectin which reduces cholesterol, lowers blood pressure and eases constipation. The potassium in ACV provides better hair, teeth and nails, prevents cramps and helps detox .Another notable benefit of Apple Cider Vinegar is weight loss, because it helps break down fat, controls blood sugar levels and helps stabilize appetite.I recently started using Bragg’s Apple Cider Vinegar after reading some of the Bragg books. It truly is amazing stuff. Combined with Oxypowder and several strands of Probiotics it really alleviates many of the digestive problems I was having. I make sure it is the first thing to touch my stomach when I wake up in the morning. It creates more stomach acid throughout the day when taken this way. I think that it is truly a miracle medicine. There is a reason many healers in history used this medicine as a staple in their patients treatment.wow. i’m truly amazed… I never thought about using raw apple cider vinegar for health reasons. I’ve always been told that raw apple cider vinegar is good for cooking, but I’m amazed at the vast amount of health benefits of apple cider vinegar!thank you.I heard about braggs acv from girls at work and how great it was for indigestion.  I started using it 2tbls in water 3 times a day and it is GREAT. No more indigestion , i go to bathroom regularly and most of all i can,t believe my clothes are getting looser. I looked at this website to see if there were weight loss benefits to taking this drink and found out it was. Im telling everyone about this its great and i do agree that braggs is the best.I would like to know the approximate quantity of apple cider vinegar to ingest each day for my arthritis and for my general health.If you can intake 3 tablespoons daily I would say that is plenty.Dr. GACV is also excellent for inflamationa and joint pain. I use it regularly for both as well as weight control. I have been using it for about 15 years and am sold on it’s benefits.MRI’ve always heard that ACV is good for acid reflux, but I’ve never tried it. After reading this post, I went to the grocery store, but they didn’t carry Bragg’s. So, I need to find a better source.Thanks for clarifying that this helps us to be more alkaline.
I was confused, thinking- vinegar is acidic- so I stopped taking it for a while.
I’m so glad you cleared that up.  I actually like to “take it straight” – a real eye opener in the AM.  Stay away from toothpaste first.Hi Dr. GI was wondering what your thoughts are on Atmospheric Water Generators.  I have recently purchased one from   .. any thoughts on water quality for health etc?Plus for anyone out there i’d like to recommend a “toothpowder” that I just got into made with Himalayan salt, Xylitol, baking soda and essential oils….. but if you like Industrial waste and heavy metals you should stick with fluoride toothpaste of course 🙂Thanksoops heres the link 🙂GNC has it 🙂I am a 47 years old male.  I am not even sure if this is related, but it is the only difference that I can track in my life style since the change took place.  I noticed an increased libido like never before.  I did not even have to try, it was just there, and the only reason I could relate to is ACV.  Once again, I am not sure if it is even related, but I had to document it for the records.Every morning when I get up I have 1 tablespoon of Braggs ACV and 1 tablespoon of raw honey mixed in a cup of warm water.  Is this enough to help lower my chlosterol?  I have been taking this since June 21, 2008 and will have my blood tested December 15, 2008.Mary,Cholesterol is manufactured in the Liver and high cholesterol levels indicate a poor functioning Liver so I would also complete 3 liver and gallbladder flushes as well as continue with the ACV and Raw Honey.Thanks Dr. GIt has been said that the raw-unfiltered organic apple cider vinegar has potassium in it. I have a bottle of Bragg’s organic vinegar in my home. I read the Nutrition Facts on the side of the bottle and it reads “Potassium Daily Value 0 mg and 0%. If it in fact has potassium, why is it not listed on the bottle?
Thanks for any help.
LindaMayLinda,
Thank you for your email!  I am not sure why your bottle would suggest this, the Braggs website actually shows the following facts about Apple Cider Vinegar:Bragg Apple Cider Vinegar
pH = 3.075
Concentration/Strength = 63 grain
Acetic Acid = 5.14 %
Potassium = 11mg/Tbsp. <2% DRV / RDBragg VinegarIngredients: Certified Bragg Organic Raw Apple Cider Vinegar is unfiltered, unheated, unpasteurized and 5% acidity. Contains the amazing Mother of Vinegar which occurs naturally as strand-like enzymes of connected protein molecules.Information:Bragg Organic Raw Apple Cider Vinegar is made from delicious, healthy, organically grown apples. Processed and bottled in accordance with USDA guidelines, it is Certified Organic by Organic Certifiers and Oregon Tilth; and is Kosher Certified. Bragg Organic Raw Apple Cider Vinegar is full of zesty natural goodness. It's a wholesome way to add delicious flavor to salads, veggies, most foods, and even sprinkle over popcorn.Apple Cider Vinegar has been highly regarded throughout history. In 400 B.C.
the great Hippocrates, Father of Medicine, used it for its amazing cleansing and healing and energizing health qualities.INTERNAL BENEFITS:
* Rich in enzymes & potassium
* Natural antibiotic germ fighter
* Fights E Coli and other bacteria
* Helps control and normalize weight
* Helps improve digestion assimilation
* Helps relieve arthritis stiffness
* Helps relieve dry sore throats
* Helps remove body sludge toxinsAs you can see, they do suggest that there is Potassium = 11mg/Tbsp, this is 2% of the Daily recommended value.If you feel you have a defective bottle, I may suggest that you call Braggs, there phone number is as followed:
Call us toll free at:
1-800-446-1990Please let me know if I can help you further.Take care and be well! -- Dr. Gdoes the ACV have to be organic for weight loss or is regular ACV okI take about 2-4 tablespoons of ACV as soon as I get up every morning.  When you wake up in the morning, your stomach is most likely empty and has been for hours. During this time your stomach produces acids.
The ACV completely neutralizes those acids in your stomach to prevent acid reflux, as well as settles your stomach altogether. This is just one of the benefits of ACV.
I’m always researching healthier ways to eat, workout, and exercise geared towards anti-aging and overall improving the quality of life. I’m 35, and on most days people who don’t know me very well think I look like I’m in my early to mid  20s. ACV is definitely part of my daily routine.Dr. G,Thank you for your reply and all the information.I did call the 800 number, the women I spoke with said it was simply a misprinted lable. She gave me the same info/nutrition facts you gave me.Thank you so much for your time.
LindaMayI have heard apple cider vinegar can interfere with some medications.  Would this be true of birth control?Hello Dr. Group I am having some reservations about acv, mainly in terms of how it is made.  Is not the whole process of fermentation and adding water actually bad? Also, one can’t really drink more than four tablespoons of this stuff without getting a stomache ache, should this not be seen as an indicator of something bad. Why not just put apples in a blender (vita mix) with water and drink?I like you really try to keep the supplements in my diet as well as the stuff I eat as natural as possible. I rarely take supplements unles they are not in their natural form: grounded up hemp seed powder, flax seed meal, hemp seeds , pumpkin oil, raw honey, flax oil, hemp oil, bee pollen; and I really stay away from products that have names that I can’t pronounce in the ingredients, as they are probably not natural and can do more harm than good, i.e. anything in a pill, but I was really curious as to your oregano oil and aloe vera.I would first like to ask you a question on the aloe vera juice. I have stuggled for many years to try to find a truly natural juice that does not have a preservative such as citric acid or some sorbate or something along those lines, and some even still carried the organic name. Does the product on your site carry any of those preservatives? And if not, how does it stay fresh, as I was once told it was impossible for aloe vera not to go bad.In terms of the oregano oil, how is this actually made, and how does it get its organic label. I mean what I would actually look for something along the lines of taking the oregano plant and somehow getting the oil without adding any chemicals, is this how this oil is extracted? And why can’t one just the drops in water and drink?Sorry for all the questions but I just want to make sure about how natural the products are before I take the plunge in including them in my routine. Thanks againCan I use ACV While breastfeeding?Is it safeI use apple cider vinegar daily. It really makes your skin shine. Linda.My wife used ACV before and during both pregnancies and while breastfeeding both of my children.— Dr. GI am convinced about the health benefits of ACV but I am concerned that it will harm my teeth.  Do I have reason?Charlene,
I would not worry about your teeth as long as you are diluting the ACV in water- I use 1-2 tablespoons per 32 ounces. If you drink it straight it may affect your teeth unless you drink through a straw. Thanks,   Dr. GThank you for your questions!  I’m sorry for my delay in responding. I have included the questions you asked so that reviewing the answers will be easier.Q. I am having some reservations about ACV, mainly in terms of how it is made.  Is not the whole process of fermentation and adding water actually bad?No. The process of fermentation is not inherently bad. In the fermentation of organic raw apples, the apples are crushed and put into wooden barrels. Bacteria and yeast do the work. The benefits we reap come from the acetic acid that forms and the mother that remains in the unfiltered, raw apple cider vinegar. The mother contains the pectin, minerals and enzymes of apples. These powerful nutrients present many benefits for your health. The acetic acid that’s present is responsible for the sour taste of vinegar; and it plays a vital role in the process of energy release from carbohydrates and fats.Q. Also, one can’t really drink more than four tablespoons of this stuff without getting a stomach ache, should this not be seen as an Indicator of something bad.As with many things, too much of a substance can be dangerous or damaging. After all, too many vitamins or minerals can harm or kill you. It doesn’t make the substance bad. The problem may be related to how you administer it. Diluting apple cider vinegar with purified water can make it easier on your stomach. It’s also safer for your teeth because the acid is very strong and can be destructive to tooth enamel if taken straight.Q. I would first like to ask you a question on the aloe vera juice.  Does the product on your site carry any of those preservatives? And if not, how does it stay fresh, as I was once told it was impossible for aloe vera not to go bad.R Pur’s aloe vera juice contains sodium benzoate which is a preservative which occurs naturally in blueberries. It is the reason for R Pur Aloe Vera Juice’s shelf life. Q. In terms of the oregano oil, how is this actually made, and how does it get its organic label. How this oil is extracted?Oregano oil is an essential oil and has to be extracted from the dried, flowering tops of the herb by steam distillation. The herbs are organically grown, free of pesticides, herbicides and genetic modification. Our high-quality Oregano Oil undergoes rigorous testing and meets the standards of the USDA National Organic Program.ECOCERT SA Organic Certification # 1848TR0600z2eQ. And why can’t one just the drops in water and drink?You can actually do this. However, our oregano oil is quite hot and could irritate your throat. Our suggestion to put oregano oil in capsules is to prevent irritation to your esophagus, as well as to ensure easy dosing. It’s easier to dose when you put the oil into a capsule; there is no chance of the oil adhering to the container holding the water.Please feel free to contact me if you have any other questions.Take care and be well!– Dr. GWhere can I find raw organic apple cider vinegar?i have a few acquired allergies, it seems, the older i’ve got. i am 45 and I have cats around me .  does acv help w/allergies/ respiratory ailments?  i have just began using acv because of the many health benefits…
how long before i might notice any improvements? does it by chance reverse the signs of aging (i.e. wrinkles)? i have read that it is very good for the skin, hair, nails, bones, etc… thanx for your time!
BecBid advocate of ACV since 2002. Love this site,very beneficial.  Can’t say enough about this stuff.  Been using Bragg’s.  Biggest benefits, weight loss, great skin, boundless energy.  I am 38 and most people think I am 25-29.I am trying this because I have acid reflux. My stomach burns every morning when I get up and through out the day.
I could stand to lose some weight as well. Maybe it will help my insulin resistance too.
I’ll let you know.I would most certainly worry about your teeth! I consider myself quite knowledgeable on drinking vinegars, and i can assure you that vinegar will make the teeth soft, and breakdown the calcium of the teeth, so you must always brush your teeth after taking vinegar.
Vinegar provides the body with calcium, and is excellent at extracting calcium from chicken bones in the soup. The Chinese and Japanese have been drinking vinegar for hundreds of years.  ACV is good, but by far out dated in 2008. You see these people that make ACV are not chemists, in fact Pat Bragg is a nutritionist a long way off becoming a chemist.
This day and age drinking vinegars are developed by agricultral chemists, because they are able to manipulate the taste and brew a much superior vinegar, with amino acids. Apple Cider Vinegar doesn’t have amino acids, although it is very healthy, but limited in health benefits.
The materials used for brewing vinegar are very important, due to the fruits health benefits, apples compared to cranberries and red grapes, are at the bottom of the health list.
However ACV like i said is out of touch with the new bio technology and brewing of vinegar in year 2008, one doesn’t need to be an expert to make vinegar, although to make one, with a developed mother of vinegar, is something else. So now you can get real drinking vinegars, that can be enjoyed for there unique refreshing fruit taste, which are organically fermented with brown rice, to provide all the enzymes the body needs, Regards KennethHealth benefits can normally be seen within a month, if you have your blood lipids controlled before drinking, take the vinegar with your meals for best results, 3 or 4 times a day, due to the acidic pH value ensure it’s well diluted. ACV should be well diluted . The vinegar will help reduce the sugar spikes in the blood from carbohydrates and optimise the metabolism.To reduce acid reflux, you must ensure it’s well diluted. Vinegar acids are weak acids, and dilute the stomach acid which is around pH 2, drinking vinegar will raise the pH so it has a alkaline effect on the pH 2 acid, although ACV is one of the strongest vinegars, with acetic acid and a strong pH value, don’t take too much.Vinegar does not make you lose weight. what it does is optimise your metabolism, which of course increases the calorie burn rate, however there will be no significant weightloss, without kickstarting the metabolism, that means exercise and raising the pulse to a level, that awakens the burning process. regardsVinegar drinking does reduce ageing of the skin, and it flushes out the free radicals, that cause cancer and other diseases.Vinegar optimises the metabolism, and therefore increases calorie burn, though one will never notice any weight reduction.The simple reason is the metabolic system needs to be kick started by exercise, humans are like bears, no activity and the brain will believe we are going to sleep, storing the calories in the fat depot, until they are required.Vinegar will increase your calorie burn, because the metabolism 10 acids, of the krebs cycle, should be met.
A bad diet will not optimise the metabolism,  because of a lack of acids, so it will be impaired. Most of it is common sense, and a little knowledge of vinegar.I did, and any body that understands a little chemistry should know, that uric acid salts are dissolved with vinegar.I want to start drinking ACV regularly and your plan sounds feasible. How much water per 2 tablespoons should I drink?Hi, I’m glad I found this site. I have recently started drinking ACV.  I take 2 tbls. before lunch and dinner, straight! The taste doesn’t bother me at all, I read in the comments it could damage your teeth if not diluted, glad I found this out, I’ll start diluting with water!Will drinking ACV help clear up my sons acne? Can he wipe his face with it?hi evry1
i m using acv from past 2 mnths n hav noticed glowing face n hair n weight loss(approx 1-2kg,bt nt sure).i”ve been using american garden,which is not organic and now a desi(indian) brand.american garden is golden brown in color n clear and d desi brand  is white cloudy .i dnt knw whether i m using d right brand ior not.bragg’s is out of my reach.plz suggest sumthing dats available in india.thanxaashi
thank you for answering my question about ACV helping with my sons acne. He is going to try cleaning his face with it topically.Hi!Yes. During the years that I drank my apple cider diligently, I almost NEVER got a cold or virus! Also, my weight came down, and I did not gain weight easily. I think I will start again… just one problem, how to get it in? The enamel on my teeth started wearing off! Any tips? Thanks!Christian regards,IngridI just tried 1 tbsp unfiltered organic apple cider vinegar with 4 oz water, and felt a burning in my stomach.  I have reflux, but am wondering if this is indicative of another problem, like an ulcer?ThanksYou can order the ACV from the Braggs website in India I’m pretty sure. Also, they have a really great book on ACV you may want to check out. I’m sure of the webaddress, but it should be pretty easy to find. Good Luck!Hi,
Your site is very nice! I am sure someone asked this but I couldn’t find it…I was diagnosed with RA atleast 2 years ago.  I was prescribed with different meds and went for physical therapy.  I also take fish oil and iron.  I really want to be med free.  A friend just told me about taking Organic ACV but I don’t know how much I am to take a day…I have read here to dialute but I still don’t know how much to take.  Please let me know how to take this properly.  Thank You!I am glad I found this site, I have been taking 2 tlbs of acv 3 times a day for the last 2 weeks, I’ve lost 4 lbs already and i am going to continue to take this for weight loss and for high blood pressure.just wanted to say that i have tried braggs ACV a couple of times.  the first time i tried the remedy on the bottle (w/o honey) first 2 teaspoons ACV in 8 oz water and then 1 tsp. -and it was too strong for me.  i am a diabetic on insulin and it was making my blood sugar go to below 40 in the afternoon… (which is a good thing – i lowered my insulin) but at the same time i was having such terrible gas and bloating every day that i could not stand it.  also i got a yellowish tinge to my skin (liver cleansing?) and my teeth got very sensitive – even though i was drinking it through a straw.  this teeth thing had happened to me before when i did the master cleanser fast and i knew it to mean i was very alkaline (at least that is what i was told).
i even tried putting the baking soda into the ACV and i didn’t have a good reaction to baking soda so stopped all baking soda – i may be allergic to baking soda btw – it makes me cringe just to think about it – LOL
so anyway – i stopped the ACV and the bloating and gas went away and my blood sugar stabilized.
well, i recently started using the ACV again – but this time at a MUCH smaller dose – 1/3 a teaspoon in a liter of water – 2 or 3 times a day.  i still get the blood sugar lowering benefits and i feel great!  do you think that at this concentration that it could even be doing anything?  i hope to work up to a larger dose – but this is working so well- i guess i am taking 1 tsp a day at the most – that i am afraid to try anything stronger.  also it does not seem to be making my teeth sensitive even though i am drinking it throughout the day instead of all at once.
thanks for you help.  and sorry this is so long.I am diabetic patient and i have blood pressure and i want to loose weight as much i can, my current weight is 227 pounds. So will the ACV will help me to lower my diabetic , blood pressure and lose weight. I want to know how much  i should  take, like twice or one time or three time in a day. your input will be appreciated;hi – i am diabetic too – but underweight instead of overweight – 135 at 5’9″.   i have found out that the ACV is very powerful for me.  if i try and take the recommended dosage of 2 teaspoons in a glass of water or even in 32 oz of water my blood sugar will go down to below 40.  i am on insulin and i have to be careful.  so i have been taking a small amount (1/3 tsp) in a bottle of water and drinking one to 2 bottles of 32 oz a day.  this keeps my blood sugar levels pretty much perfect and does not negate all the carbs from your meal like if you drink the 1 or 2 teaspoons before a meal.  so if your blood sugar is VERY high and you want to lose weight you could try drinking 1 to 2 teaspoons in an 8 oz glass of water before a meal.  BUT be careful that your blood sugar does not go too low and that you eat ENOUGH carbs in your meal.
djh/texasSadi, ACV will help although all weight gain is associated with a toxic congested Liver. I recommend doing at least one and maybe three Liver and gallbladder cleanses. I would also recommend my latest e-book  which may assist you in your weight loss efforts.I would start with 1 tablespoon of ACV in 24-32 ounces of water 2x daily. I would also perform a colon cleanse. I wish you the best.– Dr. GHi Keva,RA and other degenerative diseases are caused by the accumulation of toxins in the body. ACV will help you but I would recommend the following:  Fill out my  to evaluate your current health status  Perform the  (recommended for best results)  Perform your first  Rest for 5-10 days  Perform your second Liver & Gallbladder Cleanse. During this time start on your .  Fill out the Health Questionnaire again to evaluate your progress.  Rest for 5-10 days  During this rest period, test yourself for heavy metal toxicity using the  Perform your third Liver and Gallbladder Cleanse Rest for 5-10 days and fill out the Health Questionnaire again  Perform the  Continue on a maintenance dose of  2-3x weekly to keep your intestines clean and prevent toxins from entering your body.  Perform the . NOTE: Detoxifying the body is a big step in the right direction, but it must be coupled with an active effort to start avoiding or eliminating your exposure to heavy metals and toxic chemicals on a daily basis. My new book Health Begins in the Colon describes these toxins in detail and gives you easy methods for identifying and eliminating them from your diet, home and work environment so you can live a healthy, clean, and green life!After you complete this you should feel like a new person. Please keep me updated on your results.Dr. GWOW!  U know this is all new to me…I had no idea so much was involved!  But I believe it was a process on how my body got here and its gonna take a corrective process to get it out.  I am a dancer/actor plus a Mom which at times the RA stops me from being active.  I really want to fight this and u have given me some tools to do it…I will keep u updated on my progress.  Thank u for ur advice.hi, i have been drinking acv for quite a while. i started after i had developed a painful knee problem. i didnt want to take medicines or go from dr. to dr.. i take 2 tblsp. of acv mixed with dole 100% juice (pineapple orange banana) and a little water. i mix this in an 8 oz cup not to exceed 61/2 – 7 oz at most and i find it very tolerable to drink. you just have to develop a taste for it so give it some time. it works well for stomach problems too. i have not found it to be an energizing drink and i have been drinking this for about 4 months +. but it really worked for the knee pain and stomach so it is very worth it.I have been reading that Apple Cider Vinegar can help with hair loss is this true, if so how.i have high stomach acid . would taking acv make my gerd worseplease helpthank youHi i have started drinking the ACV twice a day. I take it when i wake up and i take it before my dinner. it being two days that i have started taking it, but my blood sugar is almost high at 222. How can I make it go down with the ACV. as i mention earlier I am using it for losing weight. I am 33 years old and my weight is 227 pounds. Your input will be appreciated;SADISadi,I would recommend starting with cleansing the body and purchasing my e-book 10 super secrets to weight loss. Fill out my  to evaluate your current health status  Perform the  (recommended for best results)  Perform your first  Rest for 5-10 days  Perform your second Liver & Gallbladder Cleanse. During this time start on your .  Fill out the Health Questionnaire again to evaluate your progress.  Rest for 5-10 days  During this rest period, test yourself for heavy metal toxicity using the  Perform your third Liver and Gallbladder Cleanse Rest for 5-10 days and fill out the Health Questionnaire again  Perform the  Continue on a maintenance dose of  2-3x weekly to keep your intestines clean and prevent toxins from entering your body.  Perform the . Once your body is clean it is a lot easier to lose weight. Dr. GMix it with honey in a jar and take it before meals.According to Kevin Trudeau, acv is good to cure almost eveything, and do you know that it is good for acid reflux? I tried it myself and it really works. Plus it is good for bad breath. If bb  comes from lack of enzymes or acids in your stomach it clears your breath right away.Hi Mark,
I have started using Apple Cider Vinegar, organic, to control my GERD.  It does not make it worse.  This was my concern also.  I decided to take the plunge when I ran out of granny smith apples in the middle of the night.  I braced myself for the worse.  I had my bottle of tums at the ready.  Did not need it.  I slept through the night without a problem.  I have been using it since.  I mix one tablespoon with a cup of mineral water (I use the Nikken water system), drink it and then go to bed.  If the problem persists try more apple cider vinegar with the cup of water.  The apple cider vinegar adds acidity to your stomach which aids your digestive ability.  What I have found out is that when your stomach is overactive it is because of not enough acid to digest the food and therefore the undigested food just begins to ferment in the stomach.  This action then causes the reflux problems.  I like to drink it in the sour state but you should add honey or demarara brown sugar to it.  Do not use any splenda or aspartame.  It just kills the purpose.  You should also take a bottle of the mixture around with you until you can wean yourself from needing it continually.I started using ACV two weeks ago. I mixed a tbsp in 32 oz of water and would drink this during my workout at the gym 5 days per week.  I would also  drink the same amount at night between 6:00 and 8:00.  I found that it is making me hyper.  My appetitie increased and I was having trouble getting to sleep (and restless through the night).  How should I adjust using ACV in order to get the benefits without having the side affects?Hi,
I would like to know more details before I take ACV.
My problem,  I am having take some medicines for:  – A lower  Bloodpressure and lower Cholesterol. Is it OK if I still continue with my regular tablets?…  How many table spoon ACV in a cup of water?… and must with manuka honey or other honey?…  How many time I should drink?… Which one is more better Raw or Organic ACV? ….Thanks a lot for answering me.Regards,Olivia.Hello I am interested in incorporating bragg’s acv into my routine but have a couple of questions if you dont mind:I am a little worried about the sugar and yeast added to the product of vinager. I have always been told to stay away from these type of products, and my health has improved but here I am thinking about incorporating something in which its main components are sugar and yeast?Also I was told by a raw foodist who is against acv, if one were to drink a whole bottle you would probably die. This is not a good sign. In comparision, if one were to drink a whole bottle of freshly squeezed orange juice, the most you might get is a bad stomach ache. IS there logic to the argument?Dear Mark,Your friend is right; if you drank a full gallon of ACV it could lead to some serious complications that possibly could result in death. These possibilities include cardiac arrest, internal bleeding and brain hemmoraging. However, my view on this topic is simple: Go for it. Live on the edge. There is a far greater chance of dying in a car crash than drinking ACV. Same goes for smoking. Go for it…. I’ve been smoking for 45 years, I am now 60. Still going strong. I hope this cleared everything up for you.Dr. J Smithson, MDHello I have a question about kidney stones would adding raw apple cidar vinegar Braggs to purified water help possible dissolve my 8mm stone as well as a vast diet change etc. etc.?  Also since newly diagnosed i’ve noticed a tablespoon of good quality olive oil helps relieves my back pain associated with the stone.  Thanks RickRick,What I have used in the past to dissolve Kidney stones is the following:Drink only distilled water and squeeze some fresh organic lemon juice – just enough so that it is not too strong. Drink about 1/2 your body weight in ounces daily. Do not eat any food except for Organic oranges until the stone disappears. This may take a few days or a couple of weeks. Basically you will be fasting on this until the stone dissolves and is passed.. Dr. GHi Rick,Please visit the site below and you see loads of testimonials on Kidney Stones. Please click ‘Ailment’ then ‘Kidney Stones’.  You certainly are on the right track.Regards,
Fauzi,  MalaysiaI started taking Bragg ACV abd it worled great for awhile, but after about six weeks I started noticing really bad burning in my stomach and constantly urinating during the day and night time and having trouble sleeping…..I stopped taking it and everything cleared up….is there something different that I can do?Hello I have always believe in Braggs Apple Cider,and I just wasn’t sure of the correct measurements to consumed and I would like to have the proper measurement please.Also I am suffering from hypertension and diabetes and also from thyroid (hypo).
I used apple cider as a toner on my face as my daily cleasing routine morning and night it is wonderful and natural too.I am also wondering what is the best honey to go along with ACV? Awaiting for your prompt reply thank you.Hello Diana are are you a type 2 diabetic?Thanky youHi, Thanks to everyone who has shared here, i’m gonna start using ACV soon, and just wanted to read up on first….I have gerd pretty bad, so hoping this will help, plus ulcers….if I experience anything negative, will be sure to share!I haven’t  used Bragg’s Apple Cider Vinegar but I ‘ve heard a lot about its useful characteristics especially concerning its influence on skin!I like to use ACV for my acid reflux. It works really well. IMO.I’ve been taking 3 tsp. acv with agave nectar in 20 oz. of water and was pleasantly surprised at the taste. I was thinking, should I take a probiotic to be sure I still have some good bacteria?Can you take cider vinegar while breastfeeding.thksI bought ACV a couple weeks ago just out of curiosity. The book about the benefits of drinking it was also for sale, but I just glanced through it. I didn’t even know that it could help with hair loss; however, after drinking it 3 times a day for two weeks, I can tell a big difference in hair loss. I am 50 years old, female, and was experiencing quite a bit of hair loss due to hormonal changes (I’m guessing). Also, my skin seems healthier overall.hello, my questions are is bragg apple cider vinegar helpful to clear up coughs, mucus along with throat redness. The other question is wll it thin your blood?I have been using a special herbal tonic made from earth grown local vegies blended along with the apple cider vinegar and tumeric. It’s been almost 1 year since i began using this and i can honestly say that the improvements i have seen in my body was no longer having acid indigestion (which happens to be a hereditary thing). It all started when a friend recommended the tonic because of his health benefits and i thought i would try it to see what it can do for me, i was surprised and very thankful that it completely stopped my stomach problem.Marg,What you were experiencing could have been due to the cleansing effect of ACV. You may have to dilute it further so as to allow your body to get used to it. As you start feeling better you can increase the ACV. However, if you have a bad case of peptic ulcer you may want to discuss it with your physician.Hi Fauzi,Please explain what do you meant by ‘please visit the site below and see loads of testimonials on kidney stones’.  I just can’t find it.  I do have kidney stones and I really need to have some
proofs that raw acv could help me. Thank you.I LOVE (ACV) I’ve been using it for about a month.  I have lost fat weight, and also I have improved skin.  I started using the product to help with kidney infections, I have not had once since I started taking the product.  I am a avid supporter of (ACV)  If your thinking about trying it DO IT NOW!!!Is it possible to take too much ACV per day.  My husband drinks approx. half a cup per day.  dosen’t see to have any ill effects but will it over timeWhoops I have been taking spoonfuls of the stuff today – I have a cold and I have an organic horseradish & apple cider vinegar with grape seed extract and tumeric extract in it – and it says on the back to have a teaspoonful three times a day.w ell I really got stuck in to it – I love the taste and wanted this cold GONE – I’d say I’ve had maybe 5 spoonsfuls of the stuff at least! Now I find out I may be doing more harm than good. Thanks for the tips!Hello. Heard of ACV effectiveness. I have been tryin’ to cure my heartburn.
Question –  I am stayin’ in Malaysia. I can only find Heinz ACV. Is Heinz as good as Bragg. Or any one can suggest any other brand.Azmi,
Seremban, Malaysia.I can’t say anything for sure, but I’d encourage him to cut down.  Every source I’ve read says that you only need a few teaspoons a day to provide benefits. Half a cup sounds like major overkill and I wouldn’t be surprised if it did cause problems eventually.Mark, it isn’t really a good argument. The recommended dose of ACV is just a few teaspoons a day. Drinking an entire bottle would be dozens or hundreds of times more than the recommended dose. If you drank dozens or hundreds of times the recommended dose of water (which is 8-12 glasses a day), you would also probably die, or at least get seriously ill. Does that mean water is bad for you?Hi Azme,I got my first bottle of Braggs ACV at Tesco. You can try Giant too.  I now buy from a grocery cum medicinal shop in Puteri Mart, Bandar Puteri, Puchong.I have not noticed any noticable results from consuming ACV and have stopped for sometime, but after reading again all these positive testimonies, I will begin taking it again, and hope for more positive results.Good luck, and keep us posted on your outcome.Hi,
Just now i have purchased “Hollinger Organic Apple vinegar”
but i got a doubt…..what is the difference between “organic apple vinegar” and “organic apple cider vinegar”
i didnt see in that supermarket about “Organic Apple cider vinegar”.
Please advice me…can i take this “Hollinger Organic Apple vinegar”
how can i take it and when?
thanks & regards
sathyguyHeinz is ok but not as potent as Bragg’s Organic Raw Unfiltered Apple Cider Vinegar or any ACV with the “Mother” – the visible particle swimming around and settling at the bottom of the bottle(that’s the good stuff).I am wondering if ACV needs to be dilluted? I enjoy the benefits, but not the taste so much, so I make a shot glass with about 2 teaspoons of ACV and an ounce of cran-raspberry juice to help with the taste and then shoot it before my meals. Is this ok? It burns a lot, and I just want to make sure the aciedity isn’t hurting my esophogus.Can I drink Apple cider vinegar without mixing it with anything to get the same benefits I like the taste of ACV so I do not mix it with water or honey is that ok?Thank you MicheleYou anc use 50@ filtered water, and 50% ACV mixture and apply throught the day directly to the face/skin with a cotton pad. This will not cure the acne, but will clean theskin of oils, refresh, and dry up, and help heal the acne that is present on the skin.  personally, I use ACV full strength on my face daily. I am 40 and have found hormanal acne vicious and takes a long time to heal. Thsi has helped me tremendously.I take two quarters of a fresh lemon and squeeze it into a tall glass. To that I add two quarters of fresh lime squeezed into the same glass. I then add two tablespoons of this apple cider vinegar and add that. I then fill the tumbler with water then add one heaping table spoon of psyllium seed husks – the Equate brand – not Metamucil – and stir. I then down this. It tastes rather fine and is drinkable. I have noticed the wrinkle in both my ear lobes fading away… My skin looks better…
I remember channel 5 news stating the condition of the earlobes, that is, the wrinkling, determines your chances for a heart attack. One deep wrinkle, you chances of a heart attack in ten years is 60%. Two wrinkles and it goes to 80%. They stated the earlobes contain the small capillaries and reflect the condition of the rest of the body. This finding, the percentages, was recorded and analyzed by a physician as he took care of his patients.Add fresh squeezed lemon. This should improve the taste – and the benefits…So, I’m confused by what you’re saying about ACV being really GOOD and come with it, LOADS of health benefits. So, does that mean ACV is NOT as beneficial to health as most people claim ?Hi Doc, I’ve just started to take ACV and am very excited and amazed by the whole range of health benefits that come with consuming ACV. However, is it really true that it’s bad for teeth and breaking down our teeth’s enamel, in the long run, consuming it ? And what is the correct dose of consumption daily ? Some said 1 to 2 teaspoons with a glass of water, 3 times a day. Some said 1 to 2 TABLEspoons with a glass of water, 3 times a day. Teaspoons and TABLEspoons is a great difference. Can you please kindly advise the dose for long term benefits ? Thank you very much. Cheers, ;-))Dr. Group,I read in the posts that your wife took acv during her pregnancies and breastfeeding. How much did she take and how many time(s) during the day? Did she have morning sickness? Did she use honey or agave? Since honey is typically said to be unsafe during pregnancy I would assume agave but does it add nutritional benefit or just make it easier for some to take? I am fine with it just diluted in water. Should I add lemon? Are babies usually less colicky if nursing moms use acv?Thanks, StephanieHoney isn’t unsafe to use during pregnancy.  It is only recommended not to be given to children under 1 year of age.  Honey can potentially carry botulism which could be deadly to an infant.Hello can I add brown sugar or a pinch of yeast to boost the medicinal benefits of apple cidar vinegar?Thanks for the benificial use of the ACVPeace
reyIf you drink too much water you can also die. Our bodies contain a very high percentage of water but too much will still kill you. the key is moderation. The yeast & sugar cause fermentation which changes the effects of individual ingredientsI’ve been using ACV for better than 25 years, and like so many other “real” things, I swear by it.
As an example of losing weight , I ran into a girl from church and we were talking about(I was lookin gfor the vinegar). Told her I’d lose 5-10 pounds in the next week. That was Sunday night after church, by the next Sunday Morning, I’d lost 9 1/2 #. My wife verified it. I usually add half the volume in honey and just take a big swallow 3-4 times a day. Like I told her, makes you pee like a horse, but that’s the first 10-15 pounds coming off anyway. And just eat right. Anyway. the stuff works. BennyBI was diagnosed with a heel spur and have had recurrent kidney infections, since taking acv, no heel pain, and no kidney infections….unbelievable.Hi Carol,There is some evidence that ACV undiluted may cause some tooth enamel to decay. I do not think that it will be a concern diluting 1 tablespoon in 32 ounces of water. Also if you drink through a straw you can avoid contact with the enamel of the teeth. My personal opinion is that  which most people use is actually a lot worse. I also recommend using tooth soap to brush your teeth to prevent enamel loss. Dosing of ACV can range from person to person, I use 1 tablespoon mixed in 32 ounces of water in the morning and the same in the afternoon. So 2 tablespoons 2x daily for me. –Dr. GStephanie,My wife consumed about 2 tablespoons daily of ACV diluted in purified water. She took 1 tablespoon of locally grown  daily and used agave for a sweetener. She did have mild morning sickness when her progesterone level was increasing. This is actually a good sign that your hormones are increasing. So nausea is not a bad thing. Neither of my two boys were colicky so I would say that the ACV and my wife’s diet and supplementation regimen must have had something to do with that. You can add a little lemon if you like to taste.Health and Happiness,–Dr. GI use ACV for weight lossing but I do not confirm that whether I use in in cold water or in warm water. Please advise.ThanksSarwatI am not using the organic unfilterd apple cider vinegar.
It is regular, store brand, apple cider vinegar.Do you get the same benefits for lowering your cholsterol, high blood pressure and weight with
the one that is not organic?Or no benefit at all?Thank you
LauraLaura,
  Go to your local health food store and purchase Braggs raw unfiltered apple cider vinegar, make sure that it has the mother in it. unfiltered avc is the only way to really benefit. when vinegar is filtered it robs it of all its nutrients, Braggs has a web site that is really helpful. Google Braggs AVC and you will be amazed at the info you will get. hope this helps.
ErinSarwat,
 It doesn’t matter if the water is warm or cold. Mixing it with cold water is really refreshing though. Also google Apple cider vinegar recipes and you can find tons of ways to add it to your meals, especially salad dressings, that will help you out. good luck.
ErinHi I cleanse my hair with ACV and wondered how many times a weeks can i do this? I also wanted to know if i took ACV as a drink say 2 tablespoons with water twice a day would it help alopecia androgentic?Hi, for many years I heard old folks say that ACV is better than any vaginal wash being sold in the market.  I laughed at the thought.  Later as I experienced some itchiness or mild foul smelling coming off before or during my period and I though what the heck.  I dilute a cupful of its cap in a pitcher of water to wash my private part and true enough it did wonders.  I hope this shares a good help for many women out there,Mary Jane
PhilippinesI started taking 1 TBSP. of Bragg’s ACV diluted in 8 oz. of warm filtered water and organic agave nectar (to sweeten) 3 to 4 times a day for the past week.  Since starting the regimen my rosacea has calmed down considerably. In fact the cluster of bumps on my left jawline is gone save for a couple of stubborn ones.  Gone! I’ve used OTC & Rx creams & gels and antiobotics to treat the rosacea and nothing, I mean, NOTHING worked except drinking this concoction several times a day.  I am so mad at my doctor for not telling me the benefits of ACV. I wish I had known about taking ACV years ago.  Would’ve saved me the embarrassment of dealing with rosacea.  Among the other numerous things I’ve noticed since taking ACV:  1) blood pressure and blood sugar are both within normal range!  (I’m not on meds for either conditions, but diet & exercise alone was not enough to get my numbers under control!) 2) Feel energized and refreshed after drinking ACV.  3) Better sleep at night – not bothered by insommnia. 4) Cuts the cravings for not-so-good-for you foods (my weakness is chocolate) and 5) my skin is softer, deep lines under my eyes & on the forehead seems softer looking.  Either that or it’s my imagination!  I am so happy to have discovered the benefits of ACV.  I am a believer that this stuff works and wil continue to take it every day for the rest of my life.I started using acv 2 weeks ago to help me with spider veins and acne.(2 tsp twice a day in 8oz of water).My condition haved improved considerably and also feel more energetic and have loose some weight,but I’m having stomaches and I feel that my skin smells like vinegar,and I’m not applying it anywhere but the face.I have read that the smell could be because of Candida,but I don’t know is that good or bad.I’m not sure if I have that condition,but some of the symptoms I do.Could that be a side effect, or maybe that is really helping? please help,thank youHi,
My name is Jay. i am 15 years old and i want to try the apply cider vinegar.  i want to know if it actually works or if it is just a myth.  thanks   <333i heard it was a myth.
plz help!!!!!!
i need to kno also and soon i dnt wanna take sumptin tht might hurt me!!!!!!!thnxxxxxxxxxxxxxAfter ingesting APC I RINSE my mouth with baking soda as it is
alkaline. Actually, I GENTLY apply a little to my teeth with a finger.
Then I swish a small amount of water around in my mouth…I
never brush my teeth  for 10 minutes after ingesting APC as the
acid makes the teeth enamel too soft or so I have read.Research your own urine for acne.  Think about it.  I saw this on television once, may have been on Oprah Show.It is not a myth. I took it for acid reflux for about a month and now I don’t have to take anything any more and that was over a year ago. Great stuffHello, I’ve been noticing that AVC cures people that already had certain ailments, but I’m perfectly healthy, with a healthy weight and moderate acne. I would like to try AVC to help cut down on the weight and get rid of the acne all together but I’m not sure if this will give me more negative side effects than positive. Any ideas?Did I read your comment correctly?  Did you just encourage someone to smoke???  If you truely are a doctor I think you should have your license revoked for that advice.hi, i hv been diagnosed with having a 8mm stone in my gall bladder and hv advise to remove the bladder.  it has been said that taking ACV with olive oil and lemon juices seems to be able to flush out the stone.  would anyone care to share the remedy ?  thanksHi, I have been taking 2t acv with honey  3 x week for only one week along with wholy tea as a detox. The rosacea on my face has gone after 1 year of suffering with it. Also eliminated acid reflex and have more energy. Like you, I think I will be taking it forever.I have just been told that I have the gout have not had real pain yet.. and would Apple Cider Vinegar help to keep it away.
 Thank youWow! I don’t think smoking is “living on the edge”…it’s just plain STUPID!  We all know the health issues associated with it, and how quickly people’s skin ages when they smoke for years.  UGH!no no…must use mother’s apple cider vinegar…organic…there is an enormous difference…the store brand is good for maybe cleaning your floors… but bad for you like process foods are killing you slowly …its worthless and harmful…I have been drinking about a tablespoon every morning for about 2 months. I have already lost a few lbs (I was about 10 pounds too heavy) and my skin looks fresh and I just feel and look better all around! I don’t crave sweets and don’t crave a lot of the things I ate before.  I was on medical leave for a pinched nerve and the pain is getting better in that department as well. I do notice that I urinate more frequently but I read that it’s from the cleansing process. Also, I normally have a terrible immune system. Right now, everyone around me has the flu, but I feel great!Hi I appreciate being able to ask a question.  My mother has some loss of kidney function.  She wants to start taking apple cider vinegar.  She is eighty.  Is is okay to take a small amount of it and how much?  Thank you very much.Yes I totally agree, only raw and organic.. Thanks for catching that..–Dr. GHi Irene,It should do your mother good to take some ACV. 1 tablespoon mixed in purified water 2-3 times daily should be a good start.–Dr. GCan you mix aloe vera juice with apple cider vinegar or are there properties in either that may lessen the other’s effectiveness?Chris,If the Aloe Vera has been processed, most likely it has some preservatives which may kill some of the active structures in the ACV. For this reason I would take them separately. Thanks–Dr. Gi wanted to go on a 10day acv diet no food just water and ACV is that healthyI’ve been drinking IN-organic apple cider vinegar for about two months now. Do you think I’ll die? Does it still have the same healthy properties of organic apple cider vinegar?No you will not die, but the inorganic does not contain all of the live health giving properties of the organic with the “Mother”. So I would switch to the raw organic sources..–Dr. GI’ve read about the benefits of Apple Cider Vinegar and bought a gallon, but it’s not the organic unfiltered type.  I’m about half done with the gallon and I bought it in July (I think).  Am I not obtaining health benefits with the cheaper processed ACV or should I stop now and just buy the $14 Bragg’s organic vinegar?  Also why is a straw needed when drinking any Apple Cider Vinegar if it runs alkaline?Dear Dr. Group,I have the antibodies for Lupus, have Morphea, Candida under control, various other related ailments to Lupus and now am beginning to wonder do I have the beginning of Rosacea, as my nose goes really red sometimes and have a few acne spots on forehead. Am doing a lot of excellent naturopathy with a qualified therapist who has most things under control but was wondering whether ACV could help the skin without aggravating the Candida, considering one is supposed to avoid fermented food.
Kind regards,
Anne-MarieI would switch to the raw. You use the straw to prevent the acidity from damaging the teeth, although this has not been proven.–Dr. GSabrina, would you mind sharing that tonic? I have severe acid reflux am trying to taper off Prilosec. Thanks so much.Vinegar is high in alkalines and it is an acid so i would imagine your husband’s stomach lining is not gonna hold up long with that much. Just a couple of teaspoons is all you need.Were can i buy the large bragg apple cider in the UK, i am very interested using this vinegar as an all purpose use thank you.8 ounce water 2tsp 3 times a dayIs AMERICAN GARDEN APPLE CIDER VINEGAR good for health?HELLO TO ALL, I HAVE BEEN DEALING WITH BV FOR YEARS AND WAS PRESCRIBED MANY MEDICATIONS THAT CLEARED IT UP FOR A WHILE BUT WOULD ALWAYS COME BACK. ABOUT 3 MONTHS AGO I ADDED 2 CUPFULS TO MY BATH WITH KNEES UP TO MY CHEST AND SOAKED FOR 15 MINS (WATER AT GROIN LEVEL)I DID THIS FOR ABOUT 7 DAYS AND I CONTINUE ON A DAILY BASIS TO  DRINK IT WITH 8 OZ OF WATER DAILY AND I HAVE HAD NO SYMPTOMS AT ALL……… FINALLY I AM BV FREEAnjee,I have taken a moment to look at the American apple cider vinegar and I would point out that it is not organic nor is it raw.  This seems to me to be a cooking type of vinegar which may have some health benefits, however, when compared to  there is a noticeable difference in the quality of the product.  Braggs is organic and raw and would surely work much better for your personal consumption and overall health.Please let me know if you have any questions, I will be more than happy to help you.Take care and be well!Dr. GYou can go to this google search I did or you can try the Amazon uk but there where several found in the search i did for the uk.If the link doesn’t work  below then copy and paste it and put it in your web search. Google Search for Braggs Apple Cider Vinegar in UK — I bought my first bottle of apple cider vinegar(Bragg) today after hearing some wonderful things about it and want to try it for myself. I have a question….If I dilute 2 TB in 8 glasses of water and drink it throughout the day will it still have the same affect that it would if I took 1 TB at a time?? I hope that makes sense and you know what I mean lol. Thank you.I was just wondering what other ideas what else I can put (other than honey) in my apple cider vinegar to make it a more enjoyable experience because the smell and taste really turn me away! Thanks!!Are there any risks (e-coli, eg) in drinking unpasteurized apple cider vinegar?  I recently purchased Braggs, but am hesitant to try because of this nagging concern.  Thank you.In a 20 oz. glass with 4 ice cubes I mix 1/2 tsp. bicarb (or baking) soda with 1/2 cup pure water til dissolved. Then pour about1/2 cup acv for soda and extra benefit effect, then fill up the rest of the way with organic apple juice. Ever had “Martinellis Apple Cider”? Almost the same thing but better! I have at least 1 glass of this mixture a day. Love, Joy.Oh, BTW, I only use Braggs. Joy. I might panic if it isn’t raw organic! Down with codex alimentarius, GhB’s, WHO’s, IMF’s, Flu shots, etc.; Up with our unalienable rights and the courage to use and fight for them! Joy.Hi Kathy,I had the same concerns and found this on the Braggs website – hope it helps!5 – Since Apple Cider Vinegar is unpasteurized, is it protected from E.Coli bacteria?Bragg Apple Cider Vinegar does not carry the E.Coli bacteria as the acidity in the vinegar is effective in killing the 0-157 strain of E.Coli bacteria. [BACK]Just curious I also have been dealing with BV for 11 yrs now and I’m at my wits end I’ve tried everything under the suns and spent hundreds for dollars for Dr appts and meds. Just curious how much apple cider you add to the water when you drink it ? Plus do you have to keep taking the baths and drinking this on a regular basis in order to stay BV free? Also alot of people have told me BV is casued by eating alot of carbs, sugars, pasta basically anything not healthy just wondering if you changed your diet or you still eat some of things I mentioned? Not only am I dealing with bv but now I feel like im starving myself to see if my syptoms will go away thanks for posting this i’m gonna give it a try if it works your a god send thank you!!You can mix it with some organic fresh squeezed orange or apple juice…There are no risks that I am aware of..Will ACV will help shrink large fibroids and how it will be taken.Is ok to refrigerate?Or should it be at room temp?I put it in the refrigerator should i take it out?After opening it is safe to refrigerate.Dr. GroupCan you just take 2-5 tablespoons of instead of mixing it with water to drink?  Does this help you loose weight also as well as good health.I am a senior and have lots of problems with my legs so I can not exercise very well, even when I was younger and I walked my legs would cramp on me to where I had to sit down for awhile to start again.My husband and I both need to loose weight but I am not sure I could drink this in water all day,  How much can you loose with this?  Any information you can help me with I would appreciate it.about teeth being sensitive i do not know if it is internal or external on or in the teeth but for fingernail and teeth sensitivities and bottom of the feet to for me(I called it the heebie jeebies) It was a horrible feeling that I could not shake, it was internal, what you were talking about might be something totally different.  For mine I took Doans back pills, does not work for bachache for me but it sure works for the sensitivity for me, mine is internal though not acid stripping the teeth. for what its worth I hope it helps.  Its been over or about a year since you posted so I do not even know if you will see this.I use “Sweet Leaf” sweetener, a little sprinkled into the vinegar water and also a powder magnesium called “calm” (just a little bit though) and it tastes delicious. I always use Bragg, the best kind.don’t even try, it does not sound safe all the acid in your stomach without anything to neutralize your acid levels might be very harmful for your health i hope you think twice before you try it .I’d be very interested in your input on this Q. I’m in the same serch for info.
Thanks!I would like to know if my 81 year old mom who is about 79lbs and has been diagnosed with parkinsons can safely use ROACV to releave her stiffness in her body, constipation ect… and if so how much? thank youi have high blood pressure high colestrol and anxiety and hot flashes, and acid relfux im 62 and on meds.my body is sensitive to alot of different vitimins and clenses. how much honey and vinigar should i take and can it be mixed with well water or does it have to be distilled water. i also need to loose about 20 pounds but anxiety meds seems to have slowed down my metabolism and makes me sleepy.so dont exercise much and my appetite has increased.  i do try to eat healthy now but use to abuse alcohol but have been sober for 8 months ty  sandraFirst, if you are trying to lose weight the most important thing is to clean your body especially your liver and gallbladder. I would recommend following my 13 step program located at: . You can take the ACV straight although it does not taste that great. With body cleansing and ACV your weight should come off fast. You can also try the product Slimirex.when i first started taking ACV for sinus problems due to terrible allergy’s–i couldn’t hardly stand drinking it!!!  I laughed at the braggs bottle claiming the drink was a “delicious pick me up”!  The funniest thing though–i’ve been drinking it on and off for about 8 months now and I would even start to concider it a delicious pick me up!  You really do get use to it the more you drink it!  sorry if this answer isn’t an ideal one–just a true one!I recently purchased some Braggs raw organic apple cider vinegar to help with a Candida problem I’m having.  I’ve started by mixing 2 tablespoons in 16 oz of distilled water and drinking this twice a day (so 4 tablespoons per day total).  Is this a good amount to help fight Candida, or should I be taking more/less?Are you aware if ACV is helpful with treatment of Tinea Versicolor, and if so, would it have to be applied topically or ingested? Thanks in advance.can I take ACV with out water, it’s easier and faster that way? I would use a straw in order to avoid exposing my teeth.
Do you know if ACV can shrink uterine fibroidsI know the feeling, try to breath out when drinking, I know this is ugly but beneficial, good luckFollow the treatment properly eat 4 or 5 apples a day for 5 days, then have Epsom salt and then you can have 1/2 cup of olive oil with 1/2 cup of lemon juices, next day you’ll see after toilet time, good luckDr. G,After reading about the benefits of ACV, I started taking it. My wife would also like to start taking ACV, but unlike most of us, she is actually trying to gain weight. Knowing that ACV helps people lose wight, will ACV prevent my wifde from gaining weight?EricIt will burn your throat and hurts really badly.  It will hurt for about 3-4 days after.  I am not sure about the fibroids.We have an amazing dermatologist that often tells us of home remedies.  The tried and true one for Tinea Versicolor is to use Nizoral dandruff shampoo.  After bathing regularly in the shower, cover the affected area with Nizoral, wait five minutes, then rinse it off.  A mild case of Tinea Versicolor (just a few spots) can be eliminated with one treatment…the worst case will be gone in a week of treatments.  Be sure to treat it before summer hits or the spots will not tan and the resulting white patches will look funny after the treatment.I agree with you. I’ve been taking it for 3 months now. I take a tbsp shot (directly to the back of the throat or w/a straw) and chase it with about 8 oz of water. It was horrible to take initially but now i can actually feel the “revitalized pick-me-up” my body exhibits from teh inside-out once it’s digested.I don’t know about standing behind ALL OF THE CLAIMS that BRAGGS makes, but I will say this, it’s MARCH and my allergies have been at bay with no SINUS MEDICINE. This is a first in my 38 years as an allergy patient. I’m loving SPRING.  Also…my liver must be enjoying the effects too because my tinkle is a clean as a toddlers. LOL!  It looks different & nothing has changed in my diet or lifestyle except my daily 1Tbsp BRAGGS  shots.I’d recommend it to anyone seeking to live a HEALTHIER LIFESTYLE — it’s one more good thing to BRAGG about. *S*How does it make your skin shine ?No. I order supplements from Botanic Choice and get their catalog. For apple cider vinegar there was a reply from a woman who also wanted to gain weight. She said that apple cider vinegar didn’t make her lose any weight it helped her get healtheir so she could gain weight. Basically it just makes you healthier & when your healthy your usually a pretty healthy weight. If your wife needs to gain weight this could be the aid.Hi,  I am new to this site and have some questions about Apple Cider Vinegar.  I have Tinnitus(ringing in the ears) and have read that ACV can help with the symptons.  I have read information on many websites about it and am ready to give it a try.  My question is about taking Baking Soda with Apple Cider Vinegar to cut the acid content. Is it necessary? How much sould I take? Any information you guys could share with me would be helpful.  This is a great site! ThanksHi, I am already starting drinking bragg ACV, 1 tbsp with 5 tbsp water i drink it once a day at night. Just would like to know when the best time u should drink it, is it before or after meal?? Thank you!I add 1 teaspoon in my tea and honey and tastes great. You might want to try it. It truly has made a difference in my life and my husband’s. He has type 2 diabetis and every night i prepare a his tea with 1 tsp of ACV and his sugar levels in morning range bet 120 and 135! I wish i had taken ACV all my life! i would recommend to the whole world!I drink 1 TBSP before every meal w/o water and it doesn’t burn my throat. I’ve been doing this for about 2 weeks now.I put it in V8 and I can’t taste it at all…I actually look forward to drinking it.May have ovarian cancer will drinking this help?  Sorry have to ask, will it help OCD, my son has had it for over ten years.I have acid reflux and I recently heard about a book called Natural Cures and in it, it said that the natural cure for acid reflux is raw organic apple cider vinegar.  So I have just started taking it today. Has anyone else heard that this is also a cure for acid reflux?I had acid reflux for over 10 years…
Got so bad that i would throw up in my sleep…
I would wake up choking on it …Very scary…!
I read a book and it had some facts about ACV…
I started drinking a small bottle of water first thing every mourning with honey and ACV mixed together…………ALL BETTER …also helped with muscle and joint pain…my life is better with than without…Now if I can only get it to reduce my taxes… 🙂Hi Azme,
I’m staying in Malaysia too (Gombak) I had purchased Bragg ACV from the Pharmacy recently (Guardian)..and yesterday I saw it display on the shelf in Vitacare Pharmacy. The price in Guardian is cheaper than the other.I have been taking 2 tblsp. of the braggs ACV 2-3 times a day for about a mth now. I take it and then just drink an 8 oz. glass of water. it isnt all that bad and it doesn’t  really  burn its just acidic.. Its vinegar! But with the water you dont even know you swallowed it….Hi,I am wondering if it’s ok to use ACV during a colonic session.  If so, how much should be used?  Can it be used in conjunction with coffee and aloe vera during one colonic session?Thanks!!!Hi, I was wondering if HEINZ apple cider vinegar is fine. It’s clear and doesn’t have the mother stuff. I would love to try this out, my skin isn’t so nice so I hope this will help. thx 🙂Abby,
Heinz apple cider vinegar has been pasteurized and there is no mother. The health benefits won’t be the same, if at all. Braggs is available at most grocery stores – it really is worth it to get the real stuff – raw and unpasteurized.most beneficial time to drink it is upon rising and/or just before meals.ONE GALLON OF WATER !!!! ARE KIDDING !!
for 2 table spoons, it mustbe a mis take :SCan I just  use filter water with my acvDidn’t find Braggs in the grocery store I found it at the GNC store.I have been taking ACV Braggs for 2 weeks with water 3 times/day but have not seen any weight loss yet…any comments?I mix the vingegar, honey into an approximate 32 oz bottle. My daughter uses Stevia so I decided to buy some. I just pour a little into the mixed bottle. It helps w/ the bitterness. I also add some lemon juice which changes the flavor, too. I started this regimen approximately a month or so ago. I am 50 and have not been happy w/ a few gained pounds over the last year. I’m not necessarily overweight but am happy w/ the 5 or 6 pounds I’ve lost. I’m obviously watching what I eat and also exercise but I’m wondering if the vinegar is helping, too.After meals I found that it works better…That’s pretty vague.  Of what else does your diet consist?  ACV can aid weight loss, but you alsoneed to eat a well-balnced diet, watch your claories and exercise.I lost 10 lbs from drinking it for about 2 months in my water and about 2 bottles of 64 ozThere are no negative side effects from consuming AVC.  It’s good for what ails ya.  Drink up.  😉yeah really? LOL i take it everyday as well and my skin is far from shinny!Hmmm will drinking the vinegar not make you smell bad though? Im just worried about it coming out in sweat the same way garlic or other strong smelling/tasting foods do.is it ok to take ACV capsule together with contraceptive pillsI bought my first bottle at a health food store but Kroger has it in their natural foods department, too, for about 1/2 the price of the health food store.I just started taking ACV with organic raw honey.  It has been about 3 days so far and I am not sure if I am seeing any difference at this point, but I will continue because I believe that it must be good for something!  I am writing to ask if anyone here has experience with ACV for excessive sweating.  I read that it helps this problem.  I have suffered with this for years.  The room could be cold as ice but I could be sweating!  IT is so embarassing.  Has anyone had any success treating this problem with ACV?can apple cider venigar help my monthly period late always?my problem s my varicose in my legs,thats why  i cant wear short coz im white so it looks like big worms. what aple cider vinegar can do to my problem? i need help. thank you.can i mix apple juice with regular apple cider vinegar to get the same health benefits?I found it at my local Whole Foods.It gives your body the minerals it is lacking to run in harmony. It has healing capabilities and after several weeks of use, you just notice you feel better. Definitely worth taking.I stumbled upon Dr. Bergs website(drberg.com) and he also suggests ACV. Although he suggests a cranberry drink. Which is not that bad. It is rather sour but you get use to that. I personally like the taste of it but if you want to try it here is the recipe:
8oz. spring water
unsweetened cranberry juice(2oz or 1/4 of a glass)  (make sure it is unsweetened. You can buy this at the vitamin shoppe.com or GNC. the vitamin shoppe is cheaper that GNC  though.)
1tsp 100% lemon juice
1/2 -1 tsp apple cider vinegar – adjust amount to your taste as it might be to strong for some people.
***If the drink is unpalatable you can add some apple juice to the drink but the maximum you should add is 1/4 cup. According to dr. berg you should drink it three times a day breakfast lunch and dinner. I have noticed a huge difernce in my body, my mood is better, complexion is better, and my energy is up also. I hope this helpedI’ve been using it for my varicous veins along with a product called vari-gone (got it from a herb shop) and I must say that I am thrilled with the results. My legs use to ache and feel like something was crawling on them due to the varicous veins – but now I can actually see the difference as well as feel the difference. I take the braggs apple cider vinegar mixed with unsulferated molasses twice a day. Once you get use to the taste, you’ll be ok.I CALL IT A SHOT AND A BEER. I TAKE A GOOD SIP OUT OF THE BOTTLE OF BRAGGS ORGANIC ACV AND THEN A GOOD CHUG OF SPRING WATER. YOU GET AN ADRENILINE RUSH SOON AFTER LIKE A CAFFEINE BUZZ.GIVES YOU ENERGY.are there any medicines or anything that you should not take acv if on? if so what are they.LOL. Some people shouldn’t post on here if they are going to give ignorant advice to those are are honestly seeking good advice.@ Mark.
I wouldn’t drink an entire bottle. I am not sure why someone would want to anyway. A few 1-2 tablespoons in 8oz glass of water should do you well. Don’t listen to idiots who post replies here claiming to be doctors who obviously are not. It doesn’t take a rocket scientist to know that smoking is not good for you.Whole Foods, Basic Foods, Kroger (natural food section), GNC or any natural health/food store. Make sure it is a light brownish color and has sediments settled at the bottom of the bottle. Make sure it has the following words on it: raw, organic, unfiltered, no preservatives, “with the mother”. With the mother means it has the sediments at the bottom. If you are not sure you are getting the correct ACV, find someone who does know what they are talking about…whether you have to ask numerous employees. Hope that helps.It has been said that drinking ACV straight (no dilution) will over time wear the enamel of your teeth down. People dilute the ACV with water and other things for two reasons in my opinion. 1) to help the taste (and to add honey or lemon juice) and 2) to dilute it from it being so strong and harsh on teeth. I have read if you want to take it straight to drink the same amount of ACV (1-2 tbsp) of it with a straw to avoid it getting on teeth directly.In grocery store’s, it’s where the organic foods are.nope, you have to use spring water or distiled water, water from a filter still has traces of flouride in it, it kills the mother.it must be a mistake for sure, it even say’s on the bottle, 3 table spoons to one cup of water. I always use a little more of the vinager.we don’t have any Kroger store’s, but it’s at stop and shop and shaws to.you don’t need to refrigerate, it says it on the bottle, if you want to, probably be ok. I don’t.Lisa is right Abby, the mother is where a lot of the benefits come from, plus it’s raw, not filtered, anything else won’t work.Don’t take Advil, Tylenol, or use tampons while taking ACVWhy can’t you use tampons?I also use Apple cider  vinegar to get rid of  fruit flies in my kitchenput some in a bottle or jar with a drop of dish soap
leave on counter and fruit flies will be attracted to it  and is better then using pest  spraysI’ve heard that the more homeostasis your body becomes, which is what ACV is supposed to do, the less taste the ACV has.Do I have to mix it with water. Is there any harm taking it straight, unmixed?It does help with PCOS if that is the cause of your irregularity.I use it as a deodorant (applied with a cotton pad 2-3 times per day) under my arms – it helps significantly.Filtered works well for my skin (after washing) and hair (as a rinse), however I use unfiltered for ingestion.It is like a miracle!  I take it 2-3 times per day.  It has even eliminated my pregnancy related heartburn.Ovarian cancer – Google Dr, George Malkmus and the Genesis Diet.OCD – Magnesium!Are you seeing results?  Do you feel better?  If so, keep it up!My mom had multiple (smaller) stones.  After a two week “flush” which included taking 1 tbsp acv + 8 oz water 3x a day, eating only raw foods and drinking 1 gallon total of water per day she passed EVERYTHING!  Good luck to you 🙂I do an acv rinse on my hair 1 per week.I take it pregnant and breastfeeding.  During pregnancy it really helps with the morning sickness and the heartburn, during breastfeeding it helps to avid mastitis and thrush and speed weight loss.  I always take it 1 cups warm water + 1 tbsp acv + 1 tsp organic honey (3 times daily). P.S. I’m on pregnancy #6 🙂I have used it pregnant and breast feeding with all six of mine 🙂I’m wondering if ACV could possibly cause fluid retention?  Seems like ever since I started taking it (2 tsp in water per day) my ankles are swollen and have gained 5 lbs just over these past 3-4 days. On the up-side, my sinuses are cleared from a cold or allergies very quickly and I feel better without those cold symptoms.Steve, I believe if you read futher down the page, it states that ACV is quite acidic and could burn the throat tissues as well as cause damage to tooth enamel.   Much safer to drink it in water, and cuts the taste so it’s more palatable.can i use any other organic acv other than the bragg one? well it have the same benefit? and what is the mother?Hi have not yet tried acv . I have read all the comments i feel so happy there is a natural remedie that takes care of all the things i have complained almost all my life. I am 26 years old i have Acid reflex all my life, I have IBS, Constipation, anemia,i am underweight i feel so tired all the time lately i have gone to the doctor and bacteria in my urine is present i am very worried because my kidneys also seem to hurt. i have four kids and breastfeeding my youngest i need to feel and be healthy .I have refused medications i dont want to take care of something and then end up with another i can imagine how many diffrent medications i would have to take to get cure can some one please help me and give me advise on how to take this product i also read that is not pasturized i am phobic of bacteria how safe is this? thank youNo, it says a teaspoon to 8 ounces of water! Reread, the label for petes sake! 4 teaspoons are in a tablespoon, thus 4•8=32!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Yeah, I can multiply! Hey, how many ounces are in a gallon? Mmm? Add two tablespoons to 1 gallon of water, that would be 1 teaspoon per 8ounces,  really george, you mean to say there is 64 ounces in a gallon, no way, I shant believe it!I have been drinking 2 ounces with 8 ounces of Crystal LIght for 8 weeks and have lost 16 pounds. I drink it 3 times a day and feel really good. I also portion my food intake. But I feel really good!I’ve always enjoyed using ACV on salads and just recently started taking it as a health benefit. Today, actually, I did something as stupid as to take a tbsp straight and burned my throat. It hurts to swallow and wanted to know has anyone done this, and how long does it take for the pain to go away? It’s not excrutiating, but it does hurt when I swallow. Help??Why cant you use tampons or take advil or tylenol with apple cider vinegar??!!!!!!Hi Amy! It’s great that you’ve lost 16 pounds! Crystal light usually contains aspartame, which is highly toxic to the body. Please refer to this . Thanks for the comment. ~Dr. GThe “mother” is only found in organic, raw, unpasteurized apple cider vinegar and what it is, is the settlement of the product at the bottom of the bottle or jug in which apple cider vinegar comes in. It resembles the texture of mud, and when the bottle is shaken, you can see it floating and this looks like strings or cobwebs. This is highly beneficial for your health, and it contains enzymes, vitamins, minerals and probiotics. I hope this helps.Who is the dermatologist? Iam looking for a very good dermatologist with some of my skin issues .                                     Thanks                                             VinceI found Bragg’s at our local Pick n’ Save.I highly doubt that ACV would cause these symptoms…you should check with a doctor to be sure, but you may have edema or another undiagnosed condition.I want to take apple cider vinegar to rid my body of some yeast I’ve been fighting for some time now. My only concern is that I’m 7 weeks pregnant. Is it safe to take even if I experience die off?I drink a couple of swigs straight from the bottle. It kinda tickles the back of my throat going down but it is not painful.I know how you feel. I have felt that way for a long time. I found a Natural Doctor who does tissue mineral analysis and has helped me get
back on the right track. What we eat causes our problems and we have
been taught to eat all wrong. I would first start taking the apple cider vinegar. You can take 2 tsp in 6 to 8 oz. of water . You can also add a little raw honey. I have been using it for some time. The bacteria in the apple cider vinegar is good for you. It won’t hurt you. We have also been taught to stay away from fat, that fat is bad for us. The fats that are bad are the hydrogenated oils. We need animal fat and fat that is in nuts and seeds.Especially us women. Sugar and refined carbohydrates are whats the death of us. If its not a whole food, stay away from it. If it comes in a package or a box it is bad. We should be eating meat, vegetables, whole grains(that have been soaked first) beans(soak them first to) nuts, seeds and fruit. Research gluten and the problems it causes. If you soak beans and whole grains overnight in  acidic water using lemons or limes before cooking them it won’t cause digestive problems. I am a big advocate of apple cider vinegar you can’t go wrong by drinking it or putting it on salads either.
Hope this was helpful.Why can’t you take advil ACV?Hi first ti the girl that is pregnet the answer is that u can take acv when diluted with water becouse its the same ph level as ur body should be good luck with the baby. I have been taking everything imaginable for yeast infeactiin this is the inly thing that keeps me ok im getting bc mirena removed. see .if. it will .help wth the yeast despretNo acv should nit couse any water retaintiin bc its also a natural diuretic but hope u drinkinng it with water bc thats how its thr right phI dont know but from my personal experiance is I have been using the mirena and taking acv and havent gone.pregnet so idk but if u taking an oral birth contol I would stay away from theapple cider anyy other birth control dont see y notI have my family on this stuff. I take 2 tsp straight. The first tsp is ok the 2nd is kinda ruff but does not burn. I also mix 2 tsp in my 2yr old and 15 months old drink of juice in the am. They cain’t even taste it. I was running to the doc constantly for colds and ear infections. It has now been 3 weeks and no runny nose or anything. I did not read todo this I just tried it to see what it would do for them. It won’t hurt them anyway.I’d really recommend looking up the potential harms of taking ACV straight from the bottle.  I’ve been doing research for a 10-page college essay on ACV these last couple months, and there are some very large risks you could be taking by not watering it down.  Although it may not be too serious at first, ACV is acidic enough to wear away at the esophagus, stomach, tooth enamel, etc. on the way down, and too much of it can throw off your system.  Just thought I’d warn you guys.  Taking a TBS or two with 8 oz. of water can greatly diminish these side effects, however, if not eliminate them.Try reading the books Nourishing Traditions by Sally Fallon and Wild Fermentation – they are real eye openers!What I do is I put  the tablespoon of AVC in a small glass and have a chaser ready… OJ, green tea, whatever.  I gulp down the AVC real quick and the chaser right behind it.  Works pretty good… definitely wakes you up.Jessica,  Have you ever been checked for pyloric valve stinossis?  (Not sure of the spelling of these terms.)  It runs in my family ( My brother, my cousin, and my nephew have it).  Something about the valve in the stomach doesn’t close properly. MY nephew had his repaired as a child.  My brother and cousin did not and both have acid reflux problems.   If this is the case, the AVC may not help.  You might want to look into this because that acid reflux is tough on the body and can cause serious problems down the road.
MarkThanks for that info.  It does make sense.  I know eating too much pineapple and lots of citrus fruits can wreak havoc on your tooth enamel.  So it make sense that AVC could do the same.  I didn’t think about the effects on the esophagus. That’s something to consider.  I don’t worry about the stomach too much because I need the extra acid for digestion (I’m 53)…I already take HCl tabs to help with that. , since I been taking them, I never get heartburn.
MarkSorry to disappoint, but there are 3 teaspoons in a tablespoon.  Also, there are 8 ounces in a cup, 2 cups equal a pint (16 ounces), 2 pints or 4 cups equal a quart (32 ounces), and 1 gallon equals 4 quarts (64 ounces). This can be found in most cookbooks.Seems like everyone uses Braggs, but perhaps it is because it is more available. I found Spectrum Naturals Organic Unpasteurized Apple Cider Vinegar (unfiltered) in Publix and in the health foods store.  It costs a little more, but it tastes good! I can see the “mother” in it, and it is not disgusting at all! I can take it “straight”. However, I am going to put it in some water for the 3X a day method.  I’d like to get my blood pressure down and control my weight, too.  My skin is youthful already (I am almost 49 and I look less than 40, I am told).  I wish you all the best!I drink the ACV with honey and cinnamon. Makes it taste better. That and cinnamon and honey both have added health benefits. If mixed right it doesn’t taste to bad. What is the mixture ratio I use. Don’t know, I just drop it in a glass and drink it. You should also rinse your mouth with water to get the acid from the vinegar out of your mouth and off your teeth.I will try to add a little cinnamon next time, thanks Anthony for your advice. Does anyone know how long a bottle of apple cider lasts? I mean I still have some since May 2010 and then I stopped using it. Now I am trying it again and I still have 1/2 a bottle. thanksThanks Anthony for your advise. Does anyone know how long a bottle of apple cider lasts? I mean I still have a 1/2 bottle left since last May 2010. I want to start it up again. thanksI’d never heard of the ACV home remedy until recently.  I learned that my Grandfather took a shot of ACV with honey every morning for most of his life.  He was a heavyset man, a heavy drinker for much of his life, and smoked from when he was a teenager till he was 65.  And he was diabetic.  He was born in 1909 and lived to be 83 years old.  Given his lifestyle and diabetes, I thought he lived longer than I would have expected.  Then I learned of his daily shot of ACV and honey, so I looked into the benefits.  Obviously I don’t have concrete proof that the ACV/honey resulted in his longer-than-expected life, but I don’t think it hurt.  Because of what I’ve learned about him and this home tonic, I’m now doing the same and hope to enjoy the health benefits so many others mention for years to come.Thanks for the message board!  This has been interesting and informative.I have been boiling water in my tea kettle and letting it cool then refrigerating…  is it safe to use this water to dillute the acv?You might add a lil lemon juice to your mixture it acts as an additional diuretic.Louise, sorry to disappoint you.  Most of your math is correct, except 1 gallon = 4 quarts = 128 ounces.  128 ounces in a gallon so 1 teaspoon for 8 ounces would be 16 teaspoons for 1 gallon (5 1/3 tablespoons).  Just sayin…I am 36 and have been using Braggs ACV for less than a week.  1 TBLS with a glass of purfied water 1st thing in the morning and another right before I go to bed.  I have suffered with asthma, allergies and sinus issues most of my life.  I swear that I can’t remember ever being able to breathe so easily, EVER.  Is this in my head or can ACV really help my respiratory problems that much so quickly?  I am amazed.  Has anyone else experienced this?Thanks,
JohnACV (Braggs Organic not the crap from the store) has helped me tremendously since taking it in June 2010 with my anemia and constipation issues. Both have plagued me since my daughter was born 12 years ago. I recently found my iron levels have risen in the past 6 months and my constipation only comes back when I stop the ACV otherwise I’m going regularly. It has also helped me cut my instances of kidney stones. BUT, ACV is NOT the only change I’ve made this past year. I’ve cut out all processed foods and foods that may have pesticides, drugs, hormones etc. and now I purchase foods (veg, meat, dairy – cheese, milk butter etc) that are grown organically and not fed anything other than organic foods no pesticides or drugs. I’m losing weight too because we find this food having more nutrition so we aer getting nutrient dense foods that fill us up faster and longer instead of processed foods that caused us to eat and eat andbe hungry every couple hours. ACV is only PART of the solution for healthy living. It’s not a miracle cure all.I have taken it straight – 2 Tablespoons AM 2 Tablespoons PM for 6 months and not a problem. I do drink about 3 oz water after I take it but that is all. And for whoever talks about it hurting teeth etc well it has actually helped my teeth feel better and it has stopped my receding red bleeding gums.Where do you buy Braggs ACV? Can you just get it at the store?I bought it at GNC.  I’m pretty sure Whole Foods also carries it.So I went to see a Naturalpathic doctor little over 2 weeks not after a reaction to taking a antibiotic after Kidney stone surgery. She recommended taking 2T of ACV with water every morning. So I have been doing that. I do have to say heartburn as not come back since i have been taking it! But I am concerned that there has been about 2 days last week and once this week where I have been getting watery bowl movements and I am just wondering if it is from the ACV that I have been taking or something else? I also take 2 Super concentrated Cranberry Pills 2x a day, not sure if that would make a difference or not. Any advise I can get would be great! ThanksI have never had that reaction from ACV…been using it for almost a month.I just bought a new bottle and the expiration date is November 2015 so you’re probably okay.  It’s stamped on the glass bottle above the label.ACV has helped me in numerous ways:1.  No chest discomfort at night
2.  A more relaxed “yin” state throughout the day / less feeling of stress
3.  Made my bowel movements normal, and took away bowel discomfort
4.  Removed warts
5.  Restored my hair to a natural luster
6.  No heartburn
7.  Improved body odor
8.  Cleared my sinusesIt just goes on and on… I think it’s funny that they say there’s no medical scientific research to back up the claims, yet I KNOW i’ve experienced these benefits.  Not to mention the thousands upon thousands of positive testimonials all over the net, even on sites not selling the product.   One has to wonder why the medical industry hasn’t quantified this stuff…   THIS TREATMENT HAS BEEN AROUND FOR THOUSANDS OF YEARS! I can only guess it’s the lack of profit incentive…Hello,
I am beleived to have a stomach ulcer.  Has anyone taken ACV for a ulcer?  I have heard good and bad.  Wasn’t sure if it would aggravate my ulcer.   I know that ACV is great for So many things.  I am already taking Mastic Gum and Raw Manuka Honey.  Any feedback would be appreciated :o)I have been using ACV on and off for about 4 years.  I always take it just like a shot using one of those medicine cups.  I always chase it down with a full bottle of spring water.  It takes the burn out quickly.That is actually one symptom of CHF-Chronic Heart Failure.
You may need to get checked out.
There is treatment for that.
I am not a Doctor. I am a Nurse, though.My comment above was meant for someone else who said they had swollen ankles. And it is just a thought- it may be they were on their feet too long. But, always good to get checked if it doesn’t go away within a reasonable time.This comment about sweating excessively is actually a sign of possible hyperthyroidism.
If it is accompanied by increased appetite, energy and being easily irritated. Which also needs to be treated because it will affect your hair, bones and many other things.Hello,To maintain your results can you use ACV 3x weekly as opposed to everyday.ThanksDo you really have to use filtered water with braggs apple cider vinegar.  Been using just regular water and its seems to be working …. other alternatives to filtered water as I do not want to buy filtered water.ThanksAPPLE VINIGER??
that is the first time i hear about it.
i have to say it is sound dreamy 🙂That is probably your body detoxing and getting rid of the yuckies, remember to dilute with some water. Also if you take some organic charcoal capsules that will help absorb the toxins and get rid of them faster, will also help stop loose bowels. The cranberry capsules are also helping to detox your body, so it’s like a double whammy, try either cutting back on one or the other, maybe just a teaspoon of acv, or just one cran pill.Forget my question, tried distilled water and works best ….. So yes, distilled water makes a difference …….What Erin says makes sense; good tip about the charcoal tabs. (I will recommend that to my mom who battles with Irritable Bowel Syndrom, so thank you). The Naturopath doctor would be a good person to call up, afterall s/he puts you on the ACV. Good luck John!I have been taking diluted ACV (i.e. about 2 tablespoons in 16 ounces of H2O) regularly in the morning since the end of November 2010 (i.e. about 5 months)….I love the results as i lost about 2-3 pounds and I have not had ANY colds…BUT I started to develop an excema-like rash on my right arm and right front calf…there is also something on my left front calf and a bit on my face…I don”t know if it”s the ACV but my sister told me to stop the ACV for a while. Do you think I’m allergic to it? What should I do? I REALLY believe in the medicinal properties it possesses and don’T want to stay away from it for good…I have been taking diluted ACV (i.e. about 2 tablespoons in 16 ounces of H2O) regularly in the morning since the end of November 2010 (i.e. about 5 months)….I love the results as i lost about 2-3 pounds and I have not had ANY colds…BUT I started to develop an excema-like rash on my right arm and right front calf…there is also something on my left front calf and a bit on my face…I don”t know if it”s the ACV but my sister told me to stop the ACV for a while. Do you think I’m allergic to it? What should I do? I REALLY believe in the medicinal properties it possesses and don’T want to stay away from it for good…It sounds like you are discharging.  Do not stop taking the apple cider vinegar.  I have been doing something similar and got black spots under my fingernails.  I am quite aware of this process, this is not the first time this has happened to me.  Your body is in a clensing process and this is the way it is working.Thank you for your response….I have actually been off the ACV for about a week and a half and the rash on my legs is clearing up and the one on my arm looks a bit better also(…note that the ACV is the only thing I have been keeping from my diet)…Maybe I should let the rashes completely go away and then reintroduce the ACV but with a more diluted dosage? What do you think?I’m surprised that people complain about the taste.  I love it in warm water.  It reminds me of a warm apple cider drink in the winter.  I use 2tsp ACV, 1tsp Honey, 1 tsp coconut oil, 8 oz warm water and drink this 2-3 a day.   Warm drinks are a great way to wake up the body in the morning.  EnjoyI read the master cleanse book.  He says he cured a guy with ulcers with it.  You squeeze the juice of 1/2 lemon (2 tablespns) with Grade B organic maple brown syrup (2 tablespns) in 8 oz of purified water with 1/8 – 1/10 th of a teaspoon of cayenne pepper powder and MIX WELL.  You must drink the lemonade within 10 mins of squeezing the lemon (you want live enzymes).  Drink 8 – 12 glasses / day.  Take a laxative tea before bed.  Don’t eat or drink anything else (you can have herbal non-caf tea – they recommend peppermint).  If you have to premix b/c of work or whatever, mix the 2 tblspns of lemon juice with the 2 tblspns of maple brown syrup (you can mix a few servings) and shake well then put in water and cayenne.I am on my 4th day of the same dosage as you are taking and I have cronicaly bad sinus’ with almost monthly infections. This is the best my sinus’ have felt in years! I am also putting for the first time Tea Tree Oil in my sinus rinse. So I can’t tell if it’s the ACV or the TTO But what ever it is I’m HOOKED!! I keep praying that maybe this time I have found something that works! Oh yes I have stopped doing dairy also. Amazing how all 3 have made me feel so much better. If you haven’t given up dairy I would give that a try also. Best of luck, WendyWhy do you use the Molasses, and do you know the benefits.  I really appreciate it.Will my body become immune to ACV and does it strip the enamel off my teeth?I’ve been drinking vinegar my whole life, and till recently tried it with mother. It works much better than the regular one with everything. I never took it with water and my teeth are perfectly fine. I drink it whenever I feel yucky in my stomach like I ate tooo much, I’m feeling good after a few minutes after I drink it.For years I’ve been preaching about the benefits of apple cider vinegar. Great article!Try taking a tablespoon of slippery elm powder mixed with some applesauce or pudding (anything that consistency). Slippery elm is a great treatment for stomach ulcers. You can also make a tea from it but I find mixing the powder with a stomach-calming food like applesauce works a lot better.me too, John ..within few days my constantly bleeding nose is dry and clear ..this is amazing!!!!Gotta say that this entire list of conversations seems like an elaborate sales job that was concocted by the Braggs ACV company.  Although I use the stuff, it anoys me thatthey stoop to this to sell their product.  Let’s see if this note gets on the list…hehe, it did, suprisinglyJohn must be a doctor, most doctors are against natural cures to ANYTHING. LOL! GO BRAGG VINEGAR!Hi Anne!
I’m using normal and not distilled water, and seems to work well.TinaHi John!Thanks for expressing your concerns. If anybody from Bragg’s is commenting on here, it would be a surprise to us. They would have to have a pretty elaborate operation, because we receive an alert when users try to post comments from the same IP Address. And then we act accordingly.Additionally, you can buy Bragg’s ACV at pretty much every grocery store around the country, as well as many other websites. So, I would imagine we’re a pretty small fish to them.But, thank you for expressing your concerns. I will keep a closer eye on who comments here, to see if I can find any correlation of users that may be attempting to “game the system”. ~GHC AdminIs it necessary to have the “mother” in the vinegar? I have a bottle of Heinz ACV, but it’s really clear and doesn’t have the “mother” in it. Any insight would be great!hi…i just bought american gardens apple cider vinegar..i have acne and so far i have been applyin it topocally on my skin has dried up my acne and reduced the inflammation greatly however i also want to drink it but i was worried alot of people claim it causes weightloss… im already super skinny and tryin to gain weight.. i fi take a shot of it morning and night will it decrease my weight …..that is the last thing i would want…any feedback would b appreciated:)hi lisa,
i tried an experiment and bought a bottle of apple cider vinegar with the mother in it. i had three 4litre jugs of heinz apple cider vinegar with no mother in them , i shook the bottle with the mother and added some to all of the other jugs, the mother survived and is living in the heinz jugs!! so no wasteMy mother used apple cider vinegar and honey to cure bursitis in her shoulder.
I’ve recently started my 15 year old dog on this therapy to help with arthritis in his front leg. After only two weeks, I’m seeing an improvement.I have been drinking Braggs unfiltered apple cider for about 5 months now ( mixed in a 6 oz glass of cold water) and have seen several benefits. It helps digestion and adds consistency to bowel movements, it has also helped to alleviate joint pain and stiffness (arthritis in low back) and I do believe it reduces fat content as well (in connection with a sound diet. I began using it primarily to help lower my blood pressure and cholesterol levels, but it has been effective in several areas.Highly recommend its use, if your results are similar to mine.Dani Apple
Myrtle Beach, SCI mix 50% raw honey and 50% organic apple cider vinegar in a container.Pour about 4 tablespoon in glass with apple juice.Take  twice a day.(Note: Heat honey in microwave for a few seconds before adding to ACV.)You MUST use the apple cider vinegar with the “mother”. The best one is Braggs.   Otherwise you wont have the benefits.I have learned to enjoy the taste of ACV in ice cold water.  I use Whole Foods organic.  It is an easy way to keep the acid/alkaline balance using 1 tsp in 8oz water three times daily.  Keeps alkaline state.I take two 16oz bottles of water w/acv, farmer’s market honey and ceylon cinnamin (hard to find) to work daily.  It’s been about a month, I know my weight & blood pressure are down.  I haven’t measured or weighed anything in years because it only made me depressed. I figure if my progress continues I will start pulling out the smaller stuff in my closet and that will be my measuring stick for the time being.  I’m not sure about heating honey, I would be concerned about killing the enyzmes.OMG. YOU ARE ALL ABOUT HEALTHY LIFE STYLE BUT STILL USE MICROWAVE !!!!! WAKE UP. DO A RESEARCH FIRST.I was wondering if anyone has tried ACV to help with bone spurs?  I have recently been diagnosed with one on my neck and found several threads that say ACV can reduce or eliminate them.  Has anyone tried this, was it successful, how long did it take before you started seeing/feeling results and how much did you take a day?  Any info would be helpful.  Thanks, LisaI was wondering if anyone knows about ACV and hyperthyroidismNo. It only makes people with unbroken down fat skinny. That’s the truth. Besides that, a little weightlifting wouldn’t hurt. 🙂Unbroken down stored fat I mean. Only people with visible fat would really notice a difference. Just drink it. Its great for ya. They also have a great 16 oz drink with apple cinnamon in a glass snapple like bottle that really tastes like apple pie. Mmm! Or a honey version. These are less potent, but just the right amount of potency and flavor for some people.I have had reccuring shingles every month for the last 2 years and I also have kidney stones…i was wondering if the antiviral qualities of acv are strong enough to help ward off the variccilla virus???Have your vitamin D levels checked, my sister-in-law had shingles as well and her vitamin D level was 6 she is lucky to be alive.  The lab who did her lab work called her directly and told her to get vitamin D ASAP.  Hope this helps. 🙂Have they checked your thyroid?I use the clear acv with water (The White house brand) and after two days my allergies went away and skin conditions cleared up.  My 80 year grandmother has done it for years and at her last visit to the Dr. they told her that she has the stomch lining of an 18 year old who had never abused their body. She claims it’s because of the acv and says it doesn’t matter which brand and that it doesn’t have to be “raw” or Bragg’s. Though I’m sure the raw brands are even more beneficial.You must understand that there are those who claim to be health, but they only talk the talk. These are the people who want to be in the in crowd of health, but don’t take it all the way.Then there are those who live it, eat it, breatheit and sleep it, like you and I, who stay true to it.Actually:5mL=1tsp
15mL= 1Tbsp or 3 tspHey Lisa, I was doint research on amazon.com, of all places, and came across one or two accounts of people with bone spurs and/or plantar fascitous (sp?) and they seemed to do the two tblspns once or twice a day with 8-16oz of water (or more, to taste) with equal parts honey or without.  As long as you can down 2-4 tblspns that is what seemed to be the major key.  I agree that everyone stresses thee cloudy brown “raw apple cidar vinegar”.  It is beneficial for skin issues and clarifying your hair in a 50/50 rinse with water. Blah, blah, blah.  Give it a try, it’s relatively inexpensive!Dearest Nikki,   It’s all going to hte same stomach, right?  Maybe you can avoid the burn by putting your “shot” into your water and throwing that back quickly.  Just sayin’.  🙂I drink it everyday, all day in filtered water.  I crave the taste.  (Not sure what that says about my body).  I am a 50 year old heart patient and wish my dad had heard about it before he passed.i have Rainsoft (whole house system) water that is considered purified. (it has no minerals) it is alkaline.  or should i use the special Ionic water from the health food store? I just drank 1 T acv with 1/2 T raw honey in 16 oz water. Yummyi have chronic lyme disease and irritable kidney /bladder and can’t drink lemonaid, OJ, etc without pain. can i drink ACV?  i just did and we will see.  will this kill the lyme bacteria?i take a anti inflamitory called voltarin. can i use ACV>    i also take Bactrim long term for lyme disease. will it interfer? i suppose i would take the bactrim and 2 hours later the probiotic i take and then 2 hours later the ACV
>>>?????Yes and some people are just learning – so take it easy and be friendly and helpful. Health is in your attitude and spirit as well!Why the Coconut oil?I had a life time of sinus problems.  I read that many people have ears, nose and throat allergies to diary.  So I went off of diary for a week but day three I was basically cured!!!! Also, my son has eczema and went off of diary and the rash went away. Anyway….Im going to add ACV back to my diet to reap the many benefits!!1Although I am just recently learning about the benefits of ACV, I have been using organic coconut oil from Tropical Traditions for many years and swear by it. Cocounut oil has many healing properties and is the best and healthiest oil to cook with (the non virgin oil leaves no coconut oil taste in food). So, I am not surprised someone has recommended using it in their mix of ACV. If interested, I read about it in the book The Coconut Oil Miracle by Bruce Fife and Jon J. Kabara. I am sure you can look it up online. I love the idea of the hot drink as the weather turns cold and love everyone’s feedback!FYI….if you heat the honey in the microwave you kill all the “good for you” stuff that’s in it. Instead, place the honey container in a pan with some water and warm it up  on the stove like you would a baby’s bottle. It may take a bit longer but you will retain the nutrients and living organisms.L-Lysine for shingles.  I get cool sores alot so I take L-Lysine 1 pill everyday and I don’t get them, my friend had shingles everywhere even in her stomach, and was told to take L-Lysine she has not had them since.I was just wondering if anyone has researched the potential health risks of taking daily doses of ACV ?Hi Carol,
Have you heard about the actress Karen Allen (played opposite Harrison Ford in Raiders of The Lost Ark)? She had Lyme…this was about 9 years ago now.  You can hear her interview online.  Just Google her name and you will find it.  She was on Phiya Kushi’s website and did an interview about her experiences.  Check it out. This method works for our pets as well.  I have cured 6 dogs so far of their ailments (they are case studies of one of the top animal opthamologist (sp) in the world).  It is nothing short of amazing.Ruddy (and Dr. Group please chime in),How do you do the ACV hair rinse and what results are you seeing?How long does it take before seeing the results?Does taking ACV internally also help the hair?I look forward to your responses.
-Former, but healed cancer patient (1989) with no reoccourences.Dr. Group and this web community,Has anyone experienced positive affects to stretched skin (stretch marks) due to ACV?  PLEASE advise……….Will daily dosage of ACV interfere with a potassium pill prescription (1 pill, 750 mg per day)?Is it safe to take it while breastfeeding??The benefits sound great. How much should you start with, tsp.,tlb. and how many time a day. ThanksI would like to know also.Are there any downsides to drinking ACV?Yes, it is great stuff!  My Oma has had ulcerative colitis for many many years and had a really sensitive digestive system.  She couldn’t have anything with gluten in it, or brussel sprouts, or potatoes, or rice crispies…i mean, she could not eat very much stuff or her body would react to it.  But, she’s been taking apple cider vinegar, cod liver oil, and some other supplements.  And now, she can eat absolutely ANYTHING!  Her intestines are completely healed!  I don’t know if it was the ACV or what, but it’s incredible!HiI wanted to know is ACV good for shrinking – basically getting rid of fibroids in the stomach?I have been using ACV in my cooking for a while, but last week I thought I would start taking a large dose of ACV.I take 4ozs a day mixed in with 16 ozs of water and a tblspn of honey.   Water is ice cold….and I don’t drink it, I sort of chug it….  mind you I’m a very large man 6’7″ tall over 370lbs….   Almost 45 years old.  The energy level has been astounding…  Are there any dangers to what I am doing?NexIrritated stomach and burnt esophagus if not diluted enough. But haven’t heard of any other health side effects long termI started by taking 1tablespoon on morning afternoon and night. Each time with 16.9 ounce bottle of water. After week or 2 upped it to 2 tablespoons each time. I also take it for acid reflux disease so take 1 tablespoon if I get an attack after a meal. The benefits are instant, daily and long term.read a book on acv   ….  vermont medicine is one book ….book vermont medicine is the first book on the subject…. read, read, read …most comments are good but question some in this floor mat…. read a book..Have taken Voltaren for years-completely destroyed my stomach.  Started ACV 2 mos ago for sinus-it’s a wonder..cleared up sinus, smoother skin, less digestive issues and the energy is amazing.  I have severe R arthritis maybe it will ease some of the swelling.
We need t-shirts that say LOVE ACV.Hi,
I have problem my stomach  gastritic,Dr gave me medication for my stomach. I take medication  for 10 days but i stoped them after 6 days bec still  pain my stomach. BUll medication looks in is  toxic
I was thinking how better cure remedy for home. I remind that apple cider vinegar and go on internet and read it. Then i quickly go to store GNC buy ACV. I used ACV 1 table spoon ACV with cold boiled water and 1 TBS organic honey. I feel relief my stomach. Thats works and believe it. Good luck !Dont do that honey put in microwave. Honey will lost enzyme bec of heat. Just straight honey with ACV and purified water.I agree with Ashcan. Lol ! Great  BRAGG  ACVHi. I started doing the raw vinager, honey,  and water mixture a few days ago.  I have been having symptoms of a UTI so I got some cranberry concentrate.  I was mixing that with apple juice.  Tonight, I tried something new   I mixed all of it together. It actually tasted really good!  Is this ok?  Am I still getting the benefits as if I were to do them seperately?
Thanks!  This is an awesome site!Well, Russ, perhaps you should do “a research” on basic grammar…most places on the internet say you shouldn’t take it all the time. Do 5 days on the acv and then take 2 days off. or do it a week out of every month.i have read  a little bit about acv having many good affects on PMS but mainly for bloating.. Does is also help in mood swings? lately i have been getting worse.. i feel like i can hardly be around anyone. :/when I first heard of the benefits of acv, all i
had on hand was store brand.  I tried it, maybe 2 teas. before dinner and before bed.  My morning blood glucose dropped almost 20 points.  My son recommended Braggs.  I’m using that now, but the results are similar.  byw, I am also exercising now, and counting carbs.  I think the results are a combo of doing good things for yourself.If it’s not pasturized what about e-coli? I want to try this soo bad.Try reading and following the strategies  in the book  “Hormonal Health”  by Dr. Michael Colgan.   The nutritional strategies given in the book are for emotional well being and intellectual longevity.  Hint: Try looking for the book used online at a much cheaper price.Processed foods are highly acidic.  Try eating more foods that are alkalizing and anti-inflammatory.  Eat more organic vegetables and fruits.   Limit the amount of saturated fat and processed sugars.   Say no to cow’s milk, red meat, and especially pasta, pudding and pizza!If to much of any nutrition is ingestion over time there will probably be some sort of side effects.  Maybe try eating less processed foods because processed foods are highly inflammatory and acidic,  Also, remember the term synergy.   Vitamins, minerals, proteins work together to maintain a healthy body.   One cannot simply take calcium and expect to get benefits from it when other nutrients, such as, magnesium and vitamins D, C, E etc and etc are required for calcium to be absorbed and processed in the body.  One must ingest protein everyday because the body can not store it such as it can with fat.    To much protein can cause gout, but not enough protein and you will lose muscle and muscle holds up your skeleton!  The DL Alpha Tocopherol form of vitamin E in vitamins is 80% synthetic and not usable by the human body.  It must be D Alpha Tocopherol.   If your vitamin has that cheap DL form of vitamin E return it to where you purchased the vitamin and buy a better brand!   Try eating an organic sweet potato instead of a white potato for better nutrition and lower blood sugar levels.I cannot take these posted comments seriously because those who are writing cannot spell or form a sentence properly.I would like to know the dosage of acv to water and how frequently you take it It sounds too good to be true but would like to try it.There are many remedies (black strap, molassas, PH level, etc.) that have sites like this where people say how GREAT it is that I too doubt what I read. My health isn’t good and I’ve tried most of them with no success. I took ACV for PH, totally ignorant of its possible benefits. To my amazement, I noticed serious symptoms that I had for 2 to 5 yrs immediately improved. Kidney pain (had for 2 yrs) almost completely gone, scary daily headaches, gone (had for 2 yrs), ridges on nails, improving (first time in 5 yrs), and more possible improvements that I need to monitor before concluding. I’m still on my 1st month and found 1/2 tbsp in 16 oz two times a day to be the minimum (less caused symptoms to come back). I’ve tested by stopping and symptoms came back. I worry about my teeth so I brush immediately after.Many websites recommend not brushing your teeth for atleast 1 hour after. The vinegar makes your teeth sensitive. And wears on your enamel. Rinse really well after drinking the vinegar. wait a bit and then brush.Terry:  You are such a disgusting … You should read what you wrote again, and if you have an ounce of intelligence, you will see how what you wrote is so distasteful. You idiot!You should try this Chinese formula called Free of Easy Wanderer..  You can get it in a tea pill.  It is amazing !  It helped me so much, takes away all of my PMS symptoms and lessens the bleeding and cramping a lot.  Take 15-20 2x a day (they are tiny) starting on day 14 of cycle and stop when period starts. Even better results when I get an acupuncture treatment around day 22-26 of cycle.Try using a straw when drinking vinegar that way it has little or no contact with your teeth.pregnet  ladies can use this product,, such has apple cider vinegarI would think it would have the same benefit.. I just started drinking ACV and cranberry juice today.. tastes pretty good.. so we shall see..I have heard lots of good things about apple cider vinegar! Thanks for all the information.Traditional Chinese medicine and it’s branch of Chinese herbology should never be practiced outside of the scope of a licensed Acupuncturist/chinese herbologist because this branch of medicinal herbology is highly specific to each patient’s differing needs and specific constitution.    **Never accept the referral of  a chinese herbal protocol without first consulting a Chinese herbologist with at least a  4 yr. degree in TCM/Chinese herbology.I also agree that Braggs is the best tasting, as I’ve tried one or two other brands I could find. This is really good: add a teaspoon of honey and a tablespoon or two of acv to a mug of warm water and stir well. It tastes almost just like hot apple cider! I try to drink it every day.In my capacity as FL Licenced Esthetician and Internationally certified Aromatherapist quite often I recommend the Apple Cider Vinegar and Honey drink to my clients.CM
President, Ego Hour, Inc.So I started taking ACV yesterday, right now im taking 1teaspoon a day, just too see how my body will handle it then ill start taking it more gradually. So far Ive been mixing it with juice but i was curious how it would taste with my green tea, and i must sat its quite tasty! Thanks for the info on this site, i hope this will help me with some of my medical problems!I use a different brand of organic ACV with “mother”…I personally do not like the taste of the Braggs brand…do not use the regular apple cider vinegar found in the supermarket…organic ACV is only found in Health Stores or in supermarkets with an organic department…
I have been using it on and off for years and it is amazing.  I mixed it in my toner for my oiling and acne prone skin and also for stomach upset as well as weight-loss…it works and doesn’t take long to prove it’s effectiveness…
Someone mentioned earlier about the benefits of organic coconut oil…it is amazing especially for promoting weight loss and firming the body…I am a testimony that both these natural gifts from God do work for the concerns I mentioned…be blessed ..oh almost forgot, ACV brightens the skin when applied topically…guess because it is acidic…not sureMary (Canada)Agave! You surely jest, agave is worse the high fructose corn syrup. Where did you study nutrition at Barnes & Noble book store in the processed food to kill you cookbook?my wife has started using braggs apple cider vinegar with organic honey and now she is having severe kidney pain is this normal with braggs or should she stop she said it hurts pretty bad?I also believe in Colloidal Silver, it works like an antibiotic…My dentist told me not to brush after consuming acidic foods or beverages till about 20 to 30 minutes after. The acid softens the enamel on your teeth. If you brush immediately you will damage your enamel. The waiting time gives the enamel a chance to harden again. That is when you would want to brush and remove the acid from your teeth.Dr. G,I have an allergy (to an unknown substance) that makes my face and neck swell, turn red & bumpy, and my eye swells shut.  The only thing that helps is a cortisone injection.  Obviously, I don’t want to get cortisone every time this happens.  I do take benadryl and use a topical steriod cream, but it still lasts for a couple of weeks, and the itching is unbearable (not to mention that I look horrible!).  This article states, “Helps clear up skin conditions and blemishes giving a smoother texture and complexion.”  Does that mean ACV can help me?  If so, do I put it on my skin, or ingest it?  Thank you for your time!!I’ve been using Bragg’s Apple Cider Vinegar for over a year and it has helped with everything from aches and pains to lowering colesterol. When I first started takingACV I took it for 3 months and my cholesterol lowered 25 points. I also noticed I didn’t have the flu- like aches and pains that I suffered with everyday, anymore.I had acid reflux and that is gone. My blood pressure went down from 114/90 to 103/ 80 . Great for helping go to bathroom also. I think it is because of all the good in the mother(the cloudy part at the bottom).It is loaded with potassium and other nutrients. I take 3 shot glasses a day diluted with water (equal parts of water and ACV). I swear by it. It is good for the skin and detoxing also.I agree. If you are determined to get healthier, getting rid of the microwave is a good starting point. Next step, drink ACV!!
I love it. In the past year, it helped me with just about everything that was alarming about my health. It lowered my blood pressure. My UTI disappeared a month into the ACV regime, when I thought it was impossible after the antibiotics did nothing (I used cranberry extract along with it, and still do, just for case).
I also noticed that my body temperature is more regulated. For years, I suffered from either chills and goosebumps, or hotness and sweating, sometimes ironically both at the same time. This problem has slowly faded away, almost unnoticed, until I realized it one day with much satisfaction.
I attribute all this to ACV + honey combo simply because I haven’t changed anything else in my diet and I don’t take any medication. Give it a try!Beware : ACV may be great for a lot of GI tract imbalanaces but do not take honey, raw or otherwise in any form unless your GI tract is well balanced. I did and got sick. ACV to the rescue. Some people need to take ACV in water and NO honey until their gut is balanced with the right bacteria, otherwise you’re asking for trouble.I have been drinking apple cidar vinegar and water every morning for cleansing purposes.  I began this regimen about 4 months ago.  During that time I had a very large sore on the side of my face caused by a pimple that was infected.  I was going to the dermatologist for shots , but to no avail.  I became really depressed about it and just resorted to covering the area up with makeup.  I have a very stressful job, so I really didn’t give it much thought anymore.  Just two weeks ago, I noticed that the area on the side of my face was completed healed.  I was astonished because I really had given up on it healing.  One thing that I do know that was a constant in my daily routine was the ACV.  I truly do believe this is reason why my face is healed today.HI
I was wondering if AVC helps with PCOS and IRS… I was just wondering if anyone has experienced any improvement in that area ? Thanksyes this fruit is so famous in my country the benefit of it for skin specially makes it clear and brightnessHi Susan,You got my attention when you said you use the same formula to help with authorities for your dog, can you give me the formula please.
My dog had an ACL, ligamen tore in her hine leg and the Vets says she will and can develop authorities if the surgery is not perform in the time allowed.  She has her surgery next week, but it’s been almost  5 months, so I am not sure if she is starting to develop it or not, only the x-rays will tell when she have her surgery next week, but I would like to start her on this remedy if it is going to prevent the disease authorities.I have to agree with Ruth, coconut oil is the best thing for your health and as with olive oils.  Olive oils has been used sense the days before Jesus and Jesus him self used the olive oil because of it’s richness.I am from Brasil and people there use coconut oil and coconut milk for everything they do down to putting it on your hair which has enormouc benefits rather than those store baught chemicals salon wants to promote.Coconut oil, coconut milk, avocado and the yoke of the egg are all awesome home remedies for the health of your hair and body.  Along with vinegar.  Brasilians uses these remedies for years and years to promote good healthy.the yoke of the egg give great protein to your hair, but you should not use it on a daily basis, but on a weekly basis if needed for 15 30 minutes, if your hair has been damaged.  Once your hair has been resotored and in good shap, stop the egg yokes, but you can continue the coconut oil for long term healthy looking hairI put coconut oil in my hair all day and all night, it’s safe, you can wash it in the morning with a little shampoo, but you can also add some vinegar to your hair for good health and looks.I heard about ACV from a friend and bought a couple of bottles yesterday.  I kept the first one and gave the other to an office mate who has been suffering from chronic head ache due to sinusitis.  We are hoping ACV will be able to help us.I have had a bit of a battle on my end and was searching for something that may help me by using natural remedies.  I have had several battles with allergies and recently had a very bad breakout of hives whch some are larger than my hand. It was a first for me and I was prescribed numerous medication taking aerius before breakfast, zyrtec after breakfast and Prednisone, Claritin after lunch, Iterax after dinner and the countless topical creams that was suppose to get rid of my hives in a week or less.  Sadly and I’ve had hives for over a month now and I’m begining to think I’m never going to get better.  Has anyone ever gotten better with ACV for hives?  I’m desperate for a cure.I took apple cider vinegar and I am a nursing mother. Because it says unknown I thought that it was a 50/50 chance. So I took the pills for 3 days on day 2 my daughter had a fever of 103.5. So to the mother’s who are wondering if its safe the answer is NO! It is not safe to take apple cider vinegar while nursing.YES it will help your skin!! I have had severe adult acne my entire adult life. …NEVER had acne as a teen or before.  Been on antibiotics for over a year and was also applying very strong and harsh topical creams on top of antibiotics.  All these things did was destroy my internal organs and the biggest organ of all–my skin.  MY acne never got better or went away.  I recently started applying 50/50 mix of acv and water and my skin has cleared up almost entirely.I also had this problem. She needs to reduce the amount she is taking until it is tolerable.Hi, AVC seem to be doing great things for you,  you seem to be managing quit well. However I would suggest that you work towards finding the root cause of those problems that you are experiencing . You might start with improving your diet to more and more whole foods, much more  pure water along plenty of fruits, veggies so that the next time you stop the ACV your symthoms will stay away much longer if not completely. Its a process and a Life long stewardship of your body and mind, Most especially in this ever changing world. Thanks and stay healthy.It seems to be helping my knee pain
Plus I have more energy throughout the day
I am for it… Be sure to buy the organic brand though…Well, it could be, but it could also be that she got a temperature for a totally different reason.I am also a nursing mother and drink 2tsp every morn with a glass of water. My baby is fine maybe you used to much? How could a natural product cause a temp?When you say you take three shot glasses a day, or they the small shot glasses? If so how much water are you diluting the shot glasses with? Are the three shot glasses better than taking the vinegar thress times aday with each meal. Because the instruction says take two table spoons in an 8 ounce purified water daily. Do you find your way much quicker in seeing results? By the way thanks for your response it really helps me to better understand which way will work best for me thanks.I agree with the comment below you, I think you took to much esp. the pills which have no real live properties. I believe taking the Braggs liquid ACV is the best because it’s alive with the life giving (mother.) I’m glad you stopped for the sake of the baby, but a note to all; please ask your doctor! I was raised on this stuff and never got to sick as a child and at 37 I still use it. One great way is as a toner. (two part brewed green tea, one part ACV, combine and use as you would any toner) this has worked wonders for my skin!!! I also put a tablespoon in my hot tea before bed and in the morning instead of the unhealthy coffee, to have a healthy refreshing sip throughout the day put a TBS. in your bottled water.Hi! im reallu curious about this apple cider vinegar. i have one bottle @home. its heinz apple cider vinegar. i am a busy working mom and very careful with my health. i would like to try and just to make sure it would be safe for my health. please advice., thanx.Don’t Drink That!! The ACV everyone is talking about is RAW ORGANIC UNFILTERED and is brownish in color and has the “mother” at the bottom, looks like darker brown leathery stuff.  Go to local Health Food/ Natural Food Store to find the right stuff.  Drinking the clear white vinegar you’re talking about could actually harm you!
The brand I use is BRAGG’s and I think it’s great!Hi Arien. I believe what Gora is referring to is the same way I take ACV.  In the US, a “shot glass” is 2 fluid ounces.  I usually measure out 2 fl. oz of ACV into a glass and then add the same amount of water, 2 fluid ounces.  I think that would be the min. amount of water you would add in order to prevent the ACV from burning the throat but I can’t see that there is any harm in adding more water.  It’s a matter of how strong you can tolerate the ACV.  I like the 50/50 method because I get through the taste faster and then just follow up with a glass of pure water to clear my mouth.Is it better to take ACV with warm or cold water?  Does it matter?Raquel is wrong. The clear white vinegar from Heinz (is actually labeled as “Distilled White Vinegar” and made from grain) is not made from apples. The ACV from Heinz is short of golden brown. I have used this for over a year to help keep my blood pressure lower. FYI: it is also very good on fried potatoesThe Heinz brand of apple cider vinegar is distilled, filtered and it is NOT alive. On there it does not say it is raw, because it is not.
Whatever brand you choose, it needs to be RAW, Unfiltered. I love BRAGGS though.Raquel is in fact, very correct. As I stated above and as Raquel has said, the hienz apple cider vinegar is not alive, it is distilled and it is dead.
If it works for you Robert then great but you are misinformed on what is the best to take.
When anything is distilled all the living enzymes are killed.CAN THE APPLE CIDER VINEGAR TABLES BE BOUGHT IN THE STORE , IF SO WOULD A WAL-MART HAVE THEM! THANK YOUA sugar is a sugar,  is a sugar.
Fructose, Lactose, Glucose….  Your biology will turn carbs into sugars.  High Fructose Corn Syrup is a sugar and is supercharged which is probably worse than a Fructose….  choose your poison, or regulate sugars to the absolute minimum.Are you crazy ?! What kind of person are you ,encouraging someone to smoke ?No difference that I am aware of. Some people prefer using warmer water to mix it with because it kills the nasty taste a little more than cold water does.I am on my 6th day of drinking it, and I have found 1 tablespoon & 10 oz., not too cold, with a straw as my best method.Oh for God’s sake , get a life will you ???
These people are trying to help you , you stupid little pedantic fool !!!!   This is not English 101. You need to get a lover or pay for a lover and stop with the  ” I am holier than thou and I am the champion speller of the world !! ”
You idiots make me want to scream !Terry is a little pedantic jackass.I have Heinz Pure Apple Cider Vinegar.  It doesn’t say anything about being pasteurized.  Will this give me the benefits?  I live in a small town and it’s hard to find different brands or less popular choices.I’m pretty sure this won’t be of any value to you. You need to find one with sediment in the bottom. This indicates it’s alive.I learned to take 1 Tbl ACV in one cup of hot water, sweetened with honey, and drank it every night before going to bed. At first it gave me the shudders, like drinking pickle juice. But after a few times the taste became delightful and I looked forward to it. After doing this for about one week, I noticed the tension in my back and shoulder muscles just melted away – better than a massage therapist! Be sure you have true apple cider vinegar, and not just apple cider “flavored.”wow!,..thanks for this information…as i was scrolling down reading all the different reviews, I was looking for this partiucalar answers…you answered my question to the “T”. I’ve always wondered if it was safe to drink ACV alone without either organic or regular honey. I feel honey gets in the way of seeing the real results..i will try the ACV straight by itself without using honeyi agree…seems like a jerkelizabeth is correct. i myself am an acupuncturist/herbalist, and to take an herbal prescription without first seeing a trained chinese medical specialist could cause more health problems. those formulas are specifically designed for individual needs and very thorough intakes must be done before prescribing them. eastern medicine does not work like western medicine where one pill will work for a broad spectrum of disharmonies, such as PMS. herbs are powerful and do have side effects, you cant just go taking it because you heard its good for one particular symptom.Order it online!!!!Any specific brand of brewed green tea for the toner?How do you use it on your skin?I take a 50 ml shot of raw apple cider vinegar every morning mixed with 200 ml of fresh Orange Juice. You cant taste the vinegar’s acidity that wayactually i drink apple cider vinegar everyday i am breastfeeding and we are both healthy & feeling amazingI work in an Organic Health store and over the months I’ve learnt that the human body absorbs warmer water more easily than cold water.I just found out I have ulcers in my lower esophogus from acid reflux which I wasnt aware of.Has anyone with similar problem found ACV and little too much discomfort on the way to the stomach?Im thinking maybe the honey added would help this.The Heinz brand is filtered and is not good. Try buying online, it should be 100% organic unfiltered  ACV “With the Mother.” You can tell the mother is still in some ACV because of the sediment settling in the bottom of it.Robert your actually the one that is wrong. Please go and do some research and educate yourself about braggs apple cider vinegar with the mother and the crap (heinz apple cider vinegar) than make a statement or pass judgement!!! Thanks:)I’m pretty sure that was a joke of some kind. Don’ take it seriously. We’re on the internet.It is actually a nice and helpful piece of information. I’m glad that you just shared this useful information with us. Please stay us informed like this. Thank you for sharing.what is the safe dose to give a small dog and are there any side effects?Well Bill If you yourself had any intelligence, You would know that most smart people can read it anyway and not being a good speller has nothing to do with ones intelligence by the way. People keep your comments to yourself. When people type stuff.I have used acv Braggs to help heal a urine infection our black lab did have. Within 3 days unrine infection was healed. Put acv in bowl 1 tablespoon and inlcude dry food. Also I have used acv for a while and it help with strengthening my finger nails and it has helped with over all health.Hi!
 I’ve been taking apple cider vinegar pills (2/day) and drinking an 8am oz. glass of water with 2-3 tbsp of unpasturized honey ever day for the last two weeks. I feel amazing! I started because I was using the acv mixed  wkth three parts water as a toner after a breakout and found it cleared my skin in a matter of days, and nothing has returned ..istill user it as a toner too. Then I got a bad tooth infection and didnt have the money to hit the dentist, so I tried it. So glad I  did… After taking 2 pills one night (no live mix)  my pain and inflammation was.almost gone the next morning, ihad a glass of water with honey and acv that morning and by the end if the day my pain and inflammation was gone and hasnt returned . On top of this my body feels straighter, my hair is so soft… And iys curly and thick and about thirty inches long… Used to be hard to manage butt acv cured that. Also the whites of my eyes are very white, my eczema is gone and so is my dermatographism. My neck kinks are gone and, being female, discharge is a problem normally the week before my period… Also gone, along with the irritation I used to get in my bellybutton.. Since ihad my gall bladder removed my scars used to get real itchy before acv.  It basically cured all of my skin woes.. Oh and razor burn, and ingrown hairs, especially in thre bikini area also gone.. My skin is so soft and non itchy!  Oh, and.did imention I lost 12 pounds too?  Size eight to a four in two weeks, no diet changes and I spit at excercize lol. This stuff is amazing!!! The only side effect for me and my fiancee is that wer get heartburn if we take it after eating instead of beforehand, so we take it before org follow it with a piece of toast ife its before bed.Warm water melts honey faster lol plus one can never have took much honey… Mixing with apple juice works well too… Id stay away from other acidic things like lemon or orange as my doctor told me they can lessen the acidity of the acv… Not really an issue except ife your trying to balance your ph… Oh and I forgot, my skin used to tarnish my silver rings but that also stopped happening with acv… My skin doesnt turn.green either with silver.the main reason others like me dilute it more is cause of acidity on your teeth… If you used the equal parts in a shot glass dont brush your teeth for at least an hour after.. Or swish some baking powder around your mouth to neutralize the acid.Hi Dr,
I have gone through the reviews about Apple Cider Vinegar,since the positive side of it which made me to ask this questions before purchasing it. my 4 month child has an Eczema,i have applied different kind of cream but got no positive result. Can this be applied on his skin,if yes how?
Another question: Can someone on Tegretol 200mg drink this apple stuf?Big Question!! I had read (can’t find the link now) to mix 2 ounces of ACV to 8 ounce apple juice (for a particular problem).. After reading your blog, is this too much? Would it actually harm instead of help me? I would certainly like to know. With the apple juice (or grapefruit) it doesn’t taste bad at all but is it okay to add to apple juice (or must it be water only?). I know, I sound green but isn’t ‘green’ the in-word today?Blame it on speed typing Terry.. Bad spelling doesn’t necessarily indicate ‘Red Neck Trailer Trash’ nor illiteracy but someone who types faster than they can think and most often (subconsciously) view the task as a race thus they post before using spell check. I once thought similar to you then I found out that most who misspell are folks from other Countries who hasn’t quite caught on to our language.. I now include those who can’t spell in this group for the sake of our other land friends. Just a little tolerance can cure that irritation of yours.Fact is John, Bragg just happens to be the Disneyland of ACV w/mother. The rest pales in quality. What you envision as an elaborate advertising conspiracy is in fact knowledge that most posters have realized. Go ahead, try any of the others then try Bragg and decide for yourself. (this is NOT a commercial).@Louise.. By you’re calculations: ” 1quart (32 ounces), and 1 gallon equals 4 quarts (64 ounces)”. You might reconsider.. For simplicity:
1 quart (32oz) X4 (quarts/gallon)=128 oz.. Do the math.There are a few questions concerning my intake of ACV with minute maid apple juice BUT.. I take 1 oz AVC to 8oz apple juice once daily and R-LIPOIC ACID (100mg) twice a day.. Use to have gout flair ups at least twice a year (3 times in 2010).. Began this regimen in June 2011 and haven’t had a flair up since. (Swanson R-Lipoic Acid is a very good quality and more affordable than others I’ve tried).Are you  for real I have taken ACV for the Past 6mths 1tbs in water b4 bed.  Have not noticed any changes.Just because you don’t have good spelling doesn’t mean you are stupid. Get off your high horse!!!!I take Braggs ACV because of my fiance saying it does all these great things and he did it long before we were together. It not only helped me get off my blood pressure medication but it is also helping the strength in my nails and clearing my face up of any blemish I always had to cover with make up. I take 2 shots (shot glass just like if you were taking a shot of whiskey)of ACV and then I chase it with water. I don’t add honey or water to dilute it. When I want honey I eat honey comb or add raw honey to my tea instead of using sugar. I don’t eat anything with high fructose corn syrup either or from concentrate.. And that is in everything!! Try yourself some Kefir along with raw coconut water and you are good to go 😉 Ohh and Braggs now actually makes a drink for those of you that cant take straight shots of ACV. Look it up!Thats to bad Jill because I take 2 shots every day and it has done a lot for me. BUt I dont dilute mine and I take more than you.. Has helped my blood pressire, my cholesterol, my nails, my hair, my skin and when I have gotten an upset stomach I take less than my reg dose and it rids it.I am pregnant too… And my midwife and Dr said nothing but good things about me continuing Braggs ACV… So I will also continue while breastfeeding.I just stumbled on this article but read your ?’s.  I have had eczema since a child and now my 2 children have suffered on and off since birth. For me it was dyes and fragrance in washing detergent. My son had a patch on his calf that I could not get rid of.  Aveeno makes a new lotion specifically for eczema and I was hesitent to spend $11 on a little bottle since I have tried every cream out there with little results.  Guess what…IT WORKS! I noticed an improvement overnight and as long as I keep up on applying it we are good.  Also oatmeal bath when we have flare ups seem to conditon the skin and help.  Anyway wanted to share that  with you because I was surprised that it worked so well.  You should be able to use it on him as it is gentle.  Good Luck!Dear Dr.:
Dose Apple CIder Vingar help to reduce man boobs.I have found many people are using the ACV but with out any minimum and maximum values they are taking it maximum they can handle.My Question is to lower the cholesterol from 246 to 200. What is the minimum in take and what is the maximum in take because excess of any thing for a long time will may harm you in any way.
Question : Can Any one help me with my Problem What is the required amount foe getting the cholesterol on a below the line.?I’m taking a Standard glass full of water with a table soon of natural ACV and a teaspoon of natural honey.?
Is it enough for me of i have to take more ?Khurram Younas
Saudi Arabas far as i understand, there are no benefits in taking HEINZ ACV at all? just for salads only?But can i still use HEINZ ACV for my face?
did someone ever tried this before?eczema could very well be a slight dairy allergy…not lactose, but the actual diary protein…which ALMOST EVERYTHING has in it.  My 2 yr old daughter has the allergy…it manifests in eczema…more when she was smaller…her immune system now fights it well, HOWEVER, SHE IS STILL ALLERGIC and has a spot on her head that always itches…it takes a few weeks of ABSOLUTELY NO DAIRY to see if this clears up…but to avoid future problems with the allergy, I would give it a month an committ to finding out. good luckomg omg ive been taking acid meds daily having food and acid come up in my throat and burn at night after trying braggs acv after my big meals has cured me and im serious no crap it taste nasty to me but more than worth it.I was tellin one of my regular customers about my acid stomach problems and he went out of his way and brought me some braggs acv and told me to try it so i will be giving him a big hug lol.If your baby has ezema, go to a naturopath and get them allergy tested. They usually are allergic to some food your feeding them.1 to 2 tbs will be enough in the morning after fajr prayer or
i takes it with
1 clove garlic + 1 long + 1 kali mirch + 4 tbs gurr + 2 tbs honey + 2 tbs apple cider vinegarthe day i start taking it …. I am changing internally…healthyI was slammed by the flu two days ago.  Horribly, horribly ill.  It began Thursday evening, knocked me under Friday, and I woke this morning, Saturday, feeling like near death. By the grace of God, I remembered the bottle of ACV (Braggs, by the way) I had stored under my kitchen sink.  I didn’t measure anything, but drank what probably equaled to about a quarter of a cup of ACV diluted by about a half cup of water, about five times over the morning. Then again about two or three times during the day.  It is now early evening, and I feel sooooo much better it isn’t even funny. Still conjested, but no pain when coughing, and chills, fever and body aches are gone.  Amazingly, also, this morning my eyes had iggy, puffy bags under them, and they have gone down almost completely. It has been a long time since I reached for my acv, but EVERY time I do, it delivers!I’ve been using Brags ACV for almost a week on my salads along with olive oil…Use to always have store bought various dressings but finding I love ACV much better because I taste my salad more.  Have any others done this?You have to take more then at tbs and take Braggs with mother in it. people are taking 2shot glasses full in the morning to start the day. Buy it by the gallon its cheaper that way. I drink a protein vanilla shake with 2tbs with lecithin 1tbs of olive oil extra virgin and 2tbs of apple cide vinegar with 3 large oranges mixed in my vitamix with some ice, taste just like an orange juliusBe careful not to burn your osephegus drinking it straight. I’ve heard of this happening before.
Dilute in warm water and honey to sooth osephegus.hey i have tinnitus as well for about 3 years now was very bad but mild now my best information to help it is give up dairy or as much as u can cause when u are all conjested with dairy makes it louder i gave up dairy and it had got awful good likeI like to check out various health related supplements etc, I am doing a little research and talking to some people who have tried this unfiltered apple cider vinegar. It looks pretty interesting, just hoping I can swallow it 🙂Use Organic Coconut Oil… helps for many skin irritations! :)!Hi, As far As I know, Wal-Mart does not have the Bragg ACV. However Fred Meyes does. You’ll find it in their Health food section of their grocery store. Or you might find it at a Health Food Store. Good LuckI have been using Raw apple cider Vinegar, for over 3 monrths now. I have switched to “Henna and ACV (Raw Apple cider vinegar} to color my hair, and My hair “Is so Shiny and Healthy like when I was a little girl.” I have kept my weight down, my skin has Improved 100% I drink it also with Stevia, and Cactus Honey or Agave, I drink this all during the day. I have more energy. So beleive when I say “Raw Apple Cider Vinegar is a “Must for the Well Being of the Human Being.”@Dawn: Why is “everything you say” “in quotes” as though you were “advertising a product”?Sorry Dawn, I meant “Kathy.”may i ask where did you buy Brags ACV? do they sell it in major grocery stores like walmart?Hi there,
I’m on a journey to losing 100 pounds by December 2012. So far I’ve lost 40lbs!  I try to drink at least a gallon of water a day, and just started adding ACV to my water.  Does anyone know HOW MUCH vinegar I should be adding to my water for maximum weight loss? Currently , Im adding 2 Tablespoons to 32 oz of water at least 2-3 times a day; is this amount okay?Thanks in advance for the replies!I mix it with tomato juice.  Can’t even taste the ACV.  Only been using about 2 weeks and sure hope I acheive the results some of you have stated.I’ve just started adding Bragg to my water. I drink a ton of water every day anyway, but I drink even faster with the AVC in it. I want to chug it! An unexpected side effect: The salty taste of the vinegar helps stave off cravings for salty foods, which are my favorites.Hey Claudia…I actually enjoy the taste of ACV, so I don’t mix mine with anything.  I’ve been drinking it for about 5 days and have already lost 3 pounds and my belly definitely looks leaner!! I just want to make sure that I’m using the correct amount of ACV.Hey Sasha…you can find it on their website, just google Braggs ACV. I also believe they may sell it in Whole Foods or Trader Joes.Hey Sarah…I too have noticed that my cravings are lessen since I started drinking ACVVitaCost is where I purchase it on line, and the most inexpensive place I have found!Hey, I was reading that because of the acetic acid, you shouldn’t take it without diluting it first. Otherwise it may break down the enamel on your teeth. I don’t know if that is true but I was reading it on webmd.It shouldn’t be hard to take in organic tomato juice or Very Veggie (Knudsen’s organic version of V-8), since vinegar is already one of the ingredients.  As for how much to take, well, there’s lots of different advice out there, but starting with a couple of teaspoons or a tablespoon in 8 oz. of distilled or purified water before each meal can’t be too much of a stretch (especially with stevia or other natural sweetener).  It’s a food, after all.  Today I spent hours working in the broiling NM sun.  This always puts me at risk of severe muscular spasms owing to potassium depletion (I mean crippling, for days).  So I put a quarter cup of hot water, followed by a tablespoon or so of organic molasses, into a 16 oz. beer glass, stirred, filled it to the top with ice, added 1/4 cup (4 tablespoons of Bragg’s ACV, and filled that to the top with mineral water.  Sipped it as I worked till after lunchtime, adding ice as needed.  No cramps.  After lunch I wanted another.I bought a bottle of ACV and i was going to start taking it,but i went to to the ER because i been having all kinds of stomach problems,and they found out that i might have some kind of Pancreas problems, i dont know if i should use still the ACV or wait, it is very strong for me the smell,the taste and it is acid so maybe i wait?Ana,
Thank you for your post! It seems as though the diagnosis for your concern is not completely clear, as you have mentioned that you “might have some kind of pancreas problems”, I would start by suggesting that you look for a reputable Naturopath in your area to better determine what is going on.Many of the issues one can have with the Pancreas are a result of inflammation. ACV is actually going to help with such inflammation and should help you over all. However, with out a better understanding of what you are dealing with it would be difficult to suggest something more specific for you. In an effort to give you more insight, I would like to suggest using the  that we have on our website. After filling this out you should be able to review it and see which areas of the body are problematic, armed with this information we can get a better idea of where to start in order to help you with your health concerns.  I would also suggest a  in order to regain a natural balance internally.  If you find that you have any questions please always feel free to contact the Global Healing Center and we will be more than happy to help you.Take care and be well!Hi,
I’ve been put on a sugar and yeast free diet for a while for Candida.  Would Bragg Apple Cider Vinegar be okay for me?
Thanks
TrishBulk Barn in Canada has it.  Just bought some today.I’ve always preferred room temp water over iced water…Must be my innate 🙂I would respectfully disagree taht agave is worse. High Fructose corn syrup(HFCS) is made from GMO corn & has been shown to have high content of mercury. About 90% of the corn on the market is GMO. I wold avoid corn in general unless it is oranic blue corn. I also avoid ingesting ANYTHING with HFCS on the label. Studies also show that the human body does NOT react the same to HFCS as it does to table sugar or other sugars.  You won’t run into many products containing agave so it is easier to avoid. I’ve never really eaten agave or done any research on it so don’t have much of an opnion on it. My recommended sweeteners are stevia or organic coconut sugar.DR. G,
i just want to ask if the braggs ACV can help cure kidney failure?Oh, thank God.  I was beginning to think I was weird.  I just took my first spoonful of ACV and LOVED it.  All I can do to not have some more. 🙂Michelle,
Thank you for your post!  ACV will help to alkalize the body, in many cases of kidney problems we see that being to acidic can be the cause of damage, so ACV should work well in this regard.  What I may also suggest is a  in order to bring a more alkaline and balance to the body.  By cleaning up the major organs in the body it should start to deal with these concerns on its own.   If you find you have any questions please feel free to contact and we will be more than happy to help you.Take care and be well!I am doing also doing the Candida diet and want to make sure the vinegar will not contribute to yeast/fungus growth.Thank you.There is some controversy when considering ACV and its effects on candida, however, I have found that it does work well in this regard; here’s why.  Raw unfiltered ACV (I usually suggest Braggs as a good source) are rich in natural enzymes of which aide in digestion, most who are dealing with an overgrowth of candida will have an imbalance of gut flora and using ACV will help in restoring this balance.  Yeast thrives in an acidic environment, ACV is alkalizing and it will promote this effect in the body, this makes Apple Cider Vinegar an ideal “natural weapon” in fighting off Candida overgrowth throughout the body.  That said, please note that using ACV alone won’t cure candida completely and it may be advisable to consider a  in order to eliminated it all together.  I would also mention, it may be possible that when eliminating candida some report feeling an increase of the symptoms of candida overgrowth and could conclude that the ACV or cleansing isn’t working, this discomfort happens when a large number of toxins (candida yeast included) are rapidly kicked up in the system.  This can cause one to feel tired or sluggish, headaches, mild flu-like symptoms, this could be considered a healing crisis and can be expected for some people; this is a sign that the process is working and I usually suggest pushing through these symptoms as they should be temporary.  Please feel free to  the Global Healing Center if you have any questions and we will be more than happy to help you.Has anyone experienced pale/yellow stools since taking braggs? Or any disruption to their bowel movements. I also seem to have developed thrush. This could be a result of the yeasts being driven out of my body by the alkalisingACV so I’ve heard. Apart from these changes I feel goodJust looked at the “apple cider vinegars” at my local grocery, and Heinz “apple cider vinegar” is actually grain based, not apple based, so I think it would be quite different and not likely to give the results you are looking for.I suffer from eczema too. I’ve never tried ACV for it but Witch Hazel has been a godsend to me. Witch Hazel is pure, cheap and helps also with the irritation and itching of eczema. I live in Vancouver, BC and order mine through well.ca. I purchase a non-scented/alcohol free type. Plus witch hazel smells nice, at least to me.I just saw some, at Safeway or you can also try Trader Joe’sI found Braggs ACV at Publix (I live in SW Georgia) and I know that Publix isn’t everywhere.   I’d imagine you can find it lots of places.Sarah,
Thank you for your post!  Yellow stool as a result of taking ACV is not normally a problem as I have found.  Yellow stool is not a normal color, and is best to be examined by a medical professional to rule out potentially serious diseases and disorders. When you see your doctor, he or she will likely first perform a stool analysis to rule out or diagnose digestive tract conditions, viral infections, bacterial infections, or parasites.  Yellow stool relates to a condition referred to as Pale Stool in which the stool is pale or yellow in color. Unless you have ingested large amounts of food coloring on some strange whim, yellow stool is not normal. If your stool is pale or yellow, your large intestine, liver, small intestine, or stomach may be affected by a serious condition or disease.What I may suggest is thorough  in order to over come this concern, as I have seen this work well for people I have worked with that have had the same concern.  ACV should also help with this, so its continued use would likely be ideal in dealing with Yellow stool.  If you find you have any questions please feel free to contact the  and we will be more than happy to help you.Thank you again for your post, take care and be well!How do you dye your hair with it?? What do you do specifically if you dont mind sharing?I  don’t recommend warm water at all!!! I did that once and and couldn’t catch my breath, I never did it again! Has anyone else had that Spencerian? I t was very scary!Hi Laura what does PCOS & IRS stand for ?I have used braggs acv for the past couple of years for acid reflux/heartburn works great, although I cant quite figure out how one acid relieves another acid. And I just did the dumbest thing a couple of days ago, I hadn’t used the it in a while and when I took the bottle down it had a lot of that brown stuff( now I know its the mother!!) in it. I thought it was just fermentation and I strained it out. It looks really gross floating around in my drink. So is the rest of the bottle any good or should I just go out and buy another? Thank you all for sharing your experiences. I didn’t realize it was used for so many things!I have been using Heinz acv on my face for 4 years.  I used to have periodic acne breakouts from hormones and stress.  Ever since the first swipe of ACV on my cotton ball I have been acne free.  It’s amazing stuff.I used Bragg’s ACV with Mother for about a 6 month period a few years ago.  I drank 2 teaspoons with an 8 oz. glass of water every morning.  Almost instantly, I noticed changes in my eating habits and cravings and at one point, even at my hungriest, I could only consume about half the portion of food than what I previously ate.  I had noticeably less fat on my body and i looked lean!  The reason i quit taking it was, I lost 10 lbs. and it looked as if i would only continue to loose weight if I kept it up ( i had started ACV for detoxification not for weight-loss purposes ) and also because, I started developing itchy, scaly spots on various parts of my body (I attributed this to ACV as this was the only new addition to my regiment).  As soon as I stopped, my apatite returned and my weight bounced back.  I wonder if my dose or method of use caused excess weight-loss and the patchy itchy spots.  I would like to begin using ACV again, but, I wonder if its possible that my body may have some natural aversion to it?  So, my question is:  is ACV good for everybody?
Thank youI’m just starting to drink the BRAGG ACV and I’m not sure if it’s needed to be in the refrigerator after opening.You should buy another soon. It is important to have “The Mother” culture in the bottle.  But for short term use, it will still be good.  The answer to your first question: how does one acid relieve another acid is thought to be that ACV is a salicylic acid whereas stomach acid is hydrochloric acid.  Hydrochloric acid has a lower pH than salicylic acid.  So when you add ACV to your stomach after eating, you reduce the acidity in your stomach enough to prevent heartburn and discomfort, but not so much that food cannot still be digested (it digests as well in the pH environment of salicylic acid).  Hence the ACV acid assists your body in breaking down and digesting food, but also reduces the very harsh pH of your regular stomach acid, so that if it escapes through the pyloric nerve into your esophagus, it will not cause pain and burning (heartburn).6 years ago I had a stem cel transplant for AML Leukemia, I have ben in remission ever since. I drank 1 tsp of ACV every day & my Dr said I dont no what U R doing but keep doing it.(not that ACV keept me in remision from leukemia) but honestly I think it helped keeping my H levels in the norm range.I have stoped since of drinking this, BUT all the chemo I had damaged my heart,I have in short an enlarged heart, WILL BY DRINKING ACV AGAIN HELP?! In April I was DX with a glioblastomia (a spider cancer of the brain) & have have to take chemo 1 week out of the month, WILL ACV INTERFER WITH THE CHEMO?Actually the reason most heartburn occurs is the lack of acid in the stomach to digest the food.  So the food sits in your stomach and becomes rancid which then starts causing a reflux.  Adding acid helps break the food down better and it passes on through as intended and there is no reflux.  Hope that helpsMarcela,
Thank you for your post!  We do suggest refrigerating the ACV once it is open in order to ensure maximum potency for the life of the product.  At a minimum, keeping the bottle out of direct sunlight would be beneficial if you do choose to store it else where.Thank you again for your post, take care and be well!   Where ever I go these days I read about people raving about apple cider vinegar. Just a few minutes ago I saw this great article about 38(!!) uses for apple cider vinegar, you can see it here: You mean Bitch TitsDr. Bragg,
I have a fungus on my toe called Fusarium. I recently had the toe nail removed and I was told that the fungus still needs to be treated. I have read somewhere that ACV will get rid of the fungus, is this true?Thanks,
RosemarieRosemarie,
Thank you for your post!  Dr. Bragg is not affiliated with this site, however, I will be more than happy to help you with your question.  In fact ACV does work well in fighting fungus, I have a suggestions that may help you.  Prepare a foot bath with a cup of ACV and the rest of the bath can be filed with water.   Soak in this for 10-20 minutes daily.  It may take some time but this process seems to work very well for most.  It will also help if you wear shoes that are open to allow air to keep your feet dry, also when you take a shower or bath it would be advisable to thoroughly dry your feet and make sure that there is no moister that can feed the fungus.  I hope that this helps you, thank you again for your post, take care and be well!I heard that I can take the ACV for my gout (in both big toes).  Has anyone tried that?hello dr. g! I have a few questions. One- warts. I have three plantar’s warts that are stubborn. Have had them for two years and I have soaked them in ACV routinely and they are still there. Would drinking it help?Also, can you explain more on preventing hair loss?Lastly, how much should one drink a day? Thanks! Heinz now has a natural “with the mother” bottle of ACV out and I just found it at Walmart.Is it safe to take 2 tablespoons of raw apple cider vinegar by itself.  i don’t mind the taste but I wanted to make sure there wasn’t specific reason other than taste why people dilute it.I wouldn’t recommend drinking it by itself. Vinegar can be very acidic and can cause burns to your esophagus and it can damage the enamel on your teeth. It definitely needs to be diluted. Hi, I am wondering if you can mix this in a gallon and refrigirate and does it impair the effects of either the vinegar or the honey? I am taking this for gout, but this morning noticed my blood sugar level was very good.  I will put the whole family on this.  Thanks 😉Does anyone know if the Trader Joe’s “Organic Unfiltered Apple Cider Vinegar” is truly healthy, and alive…like Braggs? That’s what I have and I started taking, but when I look at the ingredients in the back it reads like this “Certified Organic Ulfiltered Apple Cider Vinegar, Diluted with Water to 5% (50 grains) Acidity”. the part that makes me question the health benefits of this cider vinegar is what is in the parenthesis “50 grains”…hmm.. Any thoughts from anyone?Zay14,
Thank you for your post!  The Trader Joe’s ACV is pasteurized which means it is not like Braggs, which is unfiltered, unheated, unpasteurized.  I hope that this helps you.Thank you again for your post, take care and be well! Sue,
Thank you for your post!  When mixing the gallon we suggest putting it in the fridge, this mixture should be good for a about a week or so.  Thank you again for your post! Lisa,
Thank you for your post!  Lets take a moment to gather more information and go from there.Gout is a kind of arthritis that occurs when uric acid builds up in blood and causes joint inflammation.Acute gout is a painful condition that typically affects one joint.Chronic gout is repeated episodes of pain and inflammation, which may involve more than one joint.
Causes, incidence, and risk factorsGout is caused by having higher-than-normal levels of uric acid in your body. This may occur if:Your body makes too much uric acid
Your body has a hard time getting rid of uric acid
If too much uric acid builds up in the fluid around the joints (synovial fluid), uric acid crystals form. These crystals cause the joint to swell up and become inflamed.The exact cause is unknown. Gout may run in families. It is more common in men, in women after menopause, and those who drink alcohol. People who take certain medicines, such as hydrochlorothiazide and other water pills, may have higher levels of uric acid in the blood.Like so many diseases, gout is likely an artifact of inflammation and habits of lifestyle, which means following an anti-inflammatory diet and making changes in lifestyle should be the first line of defense. The following should be emphasized:Avoid meats that are particularly rich sources of uric acid such as organ meats, sardines and anchovies. Physicians used to advise cutting back on purine-rich plant foods such as lentils, peas, beans, mushrooms, cauliflower and spinach; however, recent research has shown no correlation between eating such foods and incidence of gout attacks.
Eliminate coffee and all other caffeine sources from the diet.Minimize alcohol consumption. Alcohol promotes dehydration and irritates the urinary tract.Drink the full complement of eight eight-ounce glasses of water daily to flush uric acid from the system and prevent urate crystal deposition.If you are overweight, lose the excess pounds.Eat tart cherries in all forms – fresh, or as cherry juice, or in the form of tart cherry extract. Laboratory findings at Michigan State University suggest that ingesting the equivalent of 20 tart cherries inhibits enzymes called cyclooxygenase-1 and -2, which are the targets of anti-inflammatory drugs.Take bromelain, a compound of digestive enzymes and other compounds extracted from pineapple stems.ACV in your water dailyOrganic Wood VinegarEat a raw and organic diet The Use of ACV has show positive results when I have worked with people that have had issues with gout, however, I find that it is about consistency and keeping up with these type of remedies.  Natural aids help the body and take time to work.  I hope that this helps you, thank you again for your post, take care and be well!  Take care and be well! the food that a mother eats and then breast feeds to her baby can cause skin problems for the baby.  turns out my nephew is allergic to dairy and was being breastfed while his mom was intaking dairy products.  now he is fine!I spoke to them about it and it was clear that it wasn’t the real deal and it doesn’t even have the “mother” in it, the person I spoke to seem to be ashamed that they were selling such an inferior product which I didn’t blame her…I asked why they don’t carry Bragg’s and she simply said because they TJ wants to promote their own…well TJ needs to worry more about what the customer wants and less about what T.J wants…but they are community conscious in that they give a lot of their left overs to food banks, so I will  give them kudos for that…they are waste conscious & that is to their credit…but they need to get with the program on a few things…if your not mixing into anything…do you have to keep it in the fridge,..?yes for sure they do sell it at Wholefoods and Lassens, if you have one in your area…
Traders Joes is a big No!How much of this mixture of ACV with water that is mentioned above can be taken on a daily basis? how much is safe for long term consumption?  can consumption of ACV help warts?  Smriti,
Thank you for your email!  The acidity of ACV is its weapon here. The acid works on the wart, causing the afflicted skin to peel away from the healthy skin. I have used ACV to remove a wart myself and it has worked well, the area that I applied the ACV to was a little tender after application but this was soon over come and the wart basically melted away.  here is what I would suggest:  You Will Need…A cotton ball, pad, or piece of cotton cloth – very clean
A BandAid – medical tape also worksSoak the cotton ball in ACV, apply it to the area of concern and then apply the bandade to hold the cotton in place.  For best results I would suggest leaving this on for at least 8 hours, this can be done daily, however I was more comfortable using this every other day.  If you find that you have any questions please feel free to contact the  and we will be more than happy to help you.Take care and be well! Kali,
Thank you for your post!  I will be more than happy to help you with your questions, and I will answer then in the order they where received.I have three plantar’s warts that are stubborn. Have had them for two years and I have soaked them in ACV routinely and they are still there. Would drinking it help?Drinking ACV can help and I would suggest this to further help you.  Also, I wonder what the process is when you are soaking them, personally I have found that the application of ACV may have to be through out the day rather than a few hours when soaking.  I have mentioned this with another response in this post but I will also suggest it here:I have used ACV to remove a wart myself and it has worked well, the area that I applied the ACV to was a little tender after application but this was soon over come and the wart basically melted away.  here is what I would suggest: You Will Need…A cotton ball, pad, or piece of cotton cloth – very clean
A BandAid – medical tape also worksSoak the cotton ball in ACV, apply it to the area of concern and then apply the bandade to hold the cotton in place.  For best results I would suggest leaving this on for at least 8 hours, this can be done daily, however I was more comfortable using this every other day. Also, can you explain more on preventing hair loss?We actually have a good post about   that may help you.  ACV can be applied to the scalp when in the shower, I usually suggest leaving the ACV in the hair after applying it liberally, at a minimum I would suggest 5 minutes to allow it the time to work.  Lastly, how much should one drink a day?I usually make my ACV water all at one time, getting a gallon of water and adding 2 tablespoons.  This can be refrigerated, and you can drink this through out the day as your normal water.   If you find that you have any questions please feel free to contact the  and we will be more than happy to help you.Thank you again for your post, take care and be well! Gina,
Thank you for your post!  If your storing the bottle of ACV then likely it does not need to be refrigerated.  However, I would suggest keeping your bottle out of direct sunlight, generally keeping it on the counter or in a medicine cabinet should be fine.  Thank you again for your post, take care and be well! Wow! I am so excited about ACV and its fantastic health-promoting properties after reading your article…thank you for writing such a well organized and informative piece!  I did have a few questions…  All of what you said sounds amazing and I am ready to implement it as in tomorrow, but I am currently exclusively breastfeeding my sweet little girl (3 months).  Is there anything that I should be concerned with?  Is it safe for her and me?  Will she just get the great properties of ACV through the breast milk? Are there any negative effects for her? You also said to do a total body cleanse at one point, but is that safe to do while breastfeeding?Also, you recommended 2 TBSP of ACV to 1 gallon of water.  I am currently fighting several skin issues (psoriasis, dermatitis and warts on my feet and fingers, canker sores) and was wondering if I could up the amount of ACV per gallon of water (like maybe 3 or 4 TBSP?) in hopes of knocking some of these issues out sooner (as in increasing the potency) by working from the inside out? Is that okay?  Or should I just dilute that same amount of ACV in a small amount of water and take it like a shot to get it over with? Is there any benefits to either way?And one last question: I have three little boys (6,4 & 2) as well as my sweet little girl.  Can I give my boys some ACV with some raw honey?  If so, when is the best time to drink it (for all of us) to maximize its healing properties?  Before breakfast?  After dinner?  Before bed? On an empty stomach?  With food, etc?
Thank you so much!  I am so excited!!I would like to recommend ACV with mother to parents. At what age, do you recommend it safe to introduce and in what quantities. I have been drinking 1T of ACV with 2T of lemon juice, 2T of honey in a 32oz shaker bottle 4 times a day. Is there any hazards on combining the mixture and drinking that much? G’morn. I read where you said to put two tbsp of ACV to one gallon of purified water and sweeten with raw honey to taste. My question is, how much of that gallon of water should i drink a day to reap the ACV benefits?  thankyou hello sir nthank you.  does it conta8n an vitamin c?  i want to take but take sumthing else also that cant have vit c.  please let me know asap.  thanks!Quick question:  Does the ACV need to be diluted? I take a tablespoon every morning. I like the taste and the Bragg’s is so mild compared to the distilled ACV. Thank you.I like to just have a 1-2 oz shot, straight up, 3 times a day, followed by water. I find it really reduces bloating and that it squashes my sweet tooth. Love the way it makes you feel all “zesty”, when you do a shot of it, neat. You don’t HAVE TO dilute it or add honey, do you?Hello Doctor,
Is this safe for toddlers? My daughter is 3 1/2yo, and wanted to use it as a intestinal cleanser for her.Nicole,
Thank you for your post!  Little research has been done on the effects of ACV while breastfeeding, it may be wise to consult with your primary care physician to be certain that ACV is a good fit for you.  However, I have worked with a number of moms that have used ACV while breastfeeding and all have had great success.   Most will tolerate ACV well, even in an increased dosage, adding a coupe more tablespoons to your water shouldn’t pose a problem.  Like any other natural treatment it can take some time to see the full potential, likely increasing the amount will help, but it will likely take some time to over come these health problems.  With the concerns you have mentioned being problematic (psoriasis, dermatitis and warts on my feet and fingers, canker sores) many of these issues will start internally and a complete cleanse is normally suggested to eliminate the toxins that would cause these skin issues.  I would suggest considering this once you have finished breastfeeding your baby.   As for the warts more specifically, you may consider soaking these in ACV, I have suggested getting a cotton ball and a bandaid; soaking the cotton ball and applying it to the wart while covering it with the bandaid.  This could be left on during the day and should help to over come this concern as well.  I give my 4 year old ACV and honey regularly and it has always been tolerated very well.  I usually dose 1 TBSP ACV to 1 TBSP honey in 8 ounces of water, once every 2-3 days.  We like to take it first thing in the morning, however, the time frame which the dosage is taken is likely best decided by you in consideration for your daily schedule.  If you find that you have any questions please feel free to  and we will be more than happy to help you.Thank you again for your post, take care and be well!Bonnie,
Thank you for your post!  At a minium I would suggest 8 ounces to be consumed daily, one could drink this mixture as if it was regular water so drinking your daily intake would be the most ideal.Take care and be well! I just started using Bragg ACV this week.  I mix one tea spoon with 8 oz a water and drink a glass every morning, mid day and at night.  I’ve noticed, in as little as three days, that the puffiness in my stomach is gone (I have IBS), my skin is clearing up (I have dark spots) and I feel better/have more energy!  I’m a believer and plan on using this everyday for the rest of my life.  I skip the honey only because I’m concerned about the calorie intake.  I just drink purified water and the ACV.Hello,  I have a bottle of Braggs and organic agave.  I was planning on taking it, but I have read that if you have osteoporisis it can cause you to loos bone density.  Do you have any info on that or any other natural methods you know of on bone loss?  ThanksI really want to try this, but I was just wondering before I do if it will still have the same affect if I use tap water instead of purified water. I try to avoid buying my water as much as possible. Thanks!Where can I purchase the organic apple vinegar?To get the full benefit of the product should I take it once a dayMelanie,
Thank you for your post!  I believe one has to take an abnormally large about of ACV daily for this to be a concern, what we are suggesting is a few tablespoons in a gallon of water.  As for Bone density I may suggest the use of  and  in order to gain maximum absorption of calcium to the bone.  If you find that you have questions please feel free to contact the  and we will be more than happy to help you.Thank you again for your post, take care and be well! I’m a nursing mother. I used to drink apple cider vinegar every day before getting pregnant. I want to start taking it again as the cold weather approaches.  Does anyone know if it is safe to drink apple cider vinegar while nursing? Are there risks or benefits to a nursing baby? Thanks. I was looking to use the Raw Apple Cider Vinegar as a laxative but how much should I take?you should dilute it because it’s highly acidic and that’s not good for your teeth!My husbands grandmother does this when she wants to lose some quick weight. But after reading all of this I’m pumped. Helps with Acid Reflux? Seriously?! That’s like giving me the holy grail of life not sucking anymore! This is my second day of doing this. Can’t wait to see and feel the results! Yes, BRAGG Apple Cider works for me. Better health, No more heartburn and lost weightI HATE YOU ALL!!!!!!!!!!1lol jkI’m o.n diabetics medication. will honey in the ACV+honey mix increase my blood glucose levels?How long can I keep apple cider vinegar in the refer.Dr. Group, I am getting “off” Nexium. I was distressed to see my stomach full of benign polyps after an Endoscopy. I’ve read that ACV is good to treat acid reflux. Do you have a “formula” to help alleviate the heartburn and settle the reflux?Julie,
Thank you for your post!  We have had promising results with the following protocol:Start with one gallon (128 ounces) of distilled or purified water, preferably stored or purchased in a glass container. Remove 1 ounce of water so that you can add the ACV.Add three tablespoons of raw non-pasteurized organic Apple Cider Vinegar (ACV) to the gallon of water. Shake well. If the taste is too strong for you to handle, reduce to 2 tablespoons per gallon until you become accustomed to the taste.Personal Note: Distilled water works beautifully to help detoxify the body. However, if you regularly consume distilled water it may cause a mineral depletion from your body. Therefore, I recommend always adding Organic Apple Cider Vinegar to distilled water to replace the essential minerals normally absent.Thank you again for your post, take care and be well! Hello, I was reading your article and read that ACV helps with acne externally how should it be applied??Dana,
Thank you for your post!  Apple Cider Vinegar (ACV) Toner is something you can make at home to help clear your skin or simply improve your overall complexion.Malic and lactic acids found in the vinegar help to soften and exfoliate your skin, reduce red marks, and treat acne on both your face and body. Apple cider vinegar also tones your skin to the proper pH.When you first start using this toner, it’s a good idea to start off with a 1:8 ratio first and see how your skin reacts. You can then make it stronger or weaker depending on how it feels. Many people also like to add green tea and/or other essential oils, this also helps with the “scent” ACV has.  I’m not sure how long this toner stays fresh, but I suggest making a new batch every week. I also store the ACV toner in a sterilized glass bottle. Thank you again for your post, take care and be well! Please try MilkThistle….this works miracles on the kidney n liverI grew up on Apple cider vinegar I guess those immigrants knew more than we give creditI would seek a dermatologistIndeed, raw organic apple cider vinegar is very beneficial for you.I have been using it more than 10 years constantly and I can say that Bragg’s vinegar is the best from the best, no doubt! Use it with olive oil for salads or add to distilled  water and drink every day and you be well!I;ve read also it can cause ulcers if consumed undiluted because of acetic acid.Scott wanted to recommend SueroViv Cultured Whey isotonic beverage has a balanced ratio of sodium mineral to potassium; as well as B vitamins, and magnesium.  Let me know if you want the website.  It is awesome.  My last labs the dr. couldn’t believe how good they were. He even commented on my potassium levels were so good. (USA diet is high in sodiium low in potassium usually). Even my thyroid numbers improved Be Well.Wow! just found your blog looking for information on Energy drinks (to pass on to my daughter’s friend who drinks them).  I can’t stop reading!  I knew Raw Vinegar was good (salad dressing with honey is awesome) but I had no idea just how good it could be for the body and health.  Thank you so much!  BTW could I share a website for GreenFed Cultured Dairy and other transformational products?I was wondering how much AVA to water for small dog like 6 lb Yorkie? Thank you!try the banana peal, it works great, rubbet it 2 times a day, i had two warts on my middle finger, and it didn’t take to long to come off, try it and thank me laterHello Dr Group,
I have a huge problem.wirh candida overgrowth and was wondering if adding organic apple cider vinegar would be a good for this condition ?  I have read to stay away from vinegar itself?
Thank youCheck
and study the benefits of Apple Cider Vinegar on internet, if need more info or
online guidance or telephonic discussion with experts, mail us. I am authorized
distributor for Apple Cider Vinegar.  (For India
Only)Bragg’s Apple Cider Vinegar is aged in stainless steel barrels (it states this on their jar). Even the highest grades of stainless steel contain nickel which has the potential to leach into food – particularly when the food is acidic. This leads me to wonder whether Bragg’s vinegar (which is obviously very, very acidic) is high in nickel – which is not exactly something you want to be consuming large amounts of. I actually wrote to Bragg’s to ask this question, and they provided a completely unhelpful and un-substantiated reply – simply that their vinegar does not contain nickel. This runs counter to logic, which is that it actually would be high in nickel. Has this occurred to anyone else?Hi.  I read above that ACV helps with joint pain and stiffness – can you help elaborate or explain how ACV works in the body to help w/ joint pain/stiffness?  My husband has been suffering from tendonitis in his foot as well as gout for a number of years now and we are at our wits’ end.  Dr appts are typically the same treatment – cortizone shot for tendonitis flare-ups and lots of painkiller meds.  I want him to come off of all these meds so much.  He is in so much pain and the meds aren’t even helping aliviate.Dana,
Thank you for your post!  The acids found in ACV help to exfoliate and soften your skin, treat acne and helps reduce blemishes.  ACV tones your skin to the proper PH, it is basically a hidden beauty secret thats hiding in your cupboard. I suggest using a 1:1 ratio of ACV and diluted water (though some even use 100% ACV!).  Some people may not tolerate it at this concentration so you may need to dilute it further depending on your results.  I suggest applying it every other day, the days in between will give the skin some time to replenish and heal as you progress.  Acne is generally a result of a toxic colon, as the toxins build up in the body one route of elimination is through the skin, and hence acne is the result.  I have found that by  many can over come acne all together.If you find that you have any questions please feel free to contact the  and we will be more than happy to help you.Thank you again for your post, take care and be well! i was detected through 64 slice scan sometime in 2006 that my right atries has been narrowed to 50%. Since then i stop smoking and alcohol and started exercise from now and then.  Every year i do my regular test with my cardiologist using  treadmill and echo cardiac gram and it seems my results are ok. I dont take any medication as i had  some side effects. So my only alternative intake as a precaution is consuming daily 30ml of concoction  mixture garlic juice ,ginger,juice raw apple cider vinegar, lemonjuice and organic honey . I have taking since then. IS this intake can reduce or clear the block. and additionally Is there any other alternative remedy available with clinical prove that clear block.I just bought mine I Walmart todayI have a couple questions…1: Does it have to be in a gallon of water? We don’t get gallons but a large pack of bottles since our 4 year old likes to drink from a bottle. How do I need to tweek the amount of ACV for bottles?
2: Would it be ok for a 4 year old to drink water with the honey and ACV added?
3: And lastly…any ideas on the effects this could have on Multiple Sclerosis both positive and negitive?I posted a question last night and it disappeared hmm. I’ll ask again…well it’s a couple questions actually Dr. G. 🙂1: We don’t buy in gallons water wise. We buy 1pt bottles because our 4 year old likes to drink from the bottles more then a cup. How much would be good for that amount of water.2: Would it be ok for our 4 year old to drink water with some ACV in it or should we stick with straight water for him until he’s a little older?and lastly3: What effects would ACV have on Multple Sclerosis and it’s symptoms (my biggest one is fatigue and occasional drop foot) both positive and negative.Thank you so much if you can answer these questions Dr. G! 🙂Hi GHC, I am new to ACV and have been trying my best to incorporate it into my daily routine. However, I find the taste unbearable! Even one teaspoon in 16 ounces of water makes me cringe. I have tried adding honey and it did not improve the taste much, same with stevia.I noticed that some were advised against mixing it with orange juice and some other liquids. Is there anything that it can be mixed with that will take away the taste but leave all the benefits? Also, how much should I be taking daily?Marcela,
Thank you for your post!  This comes directly from the Braggs website:ragg Apple Cider Vinegar does not need to be refrigerated. We only recommend that you keep the product out of direct sunlight in a relatively cool location.I hope that this helps you, take care and be well! is pomegranate juice any help for psoriasis?My Brother used to suffer with acid reflux, and was taking Galviston everyday which made his body make even more acid. He used apple cider vinegar and had great results. He took a tablespoonful of the apple cider vinegar in a little water about 20 minutes before a meal. This was a much more effective solution for him, and it’s natural so if you are suffering with this, you might just want to try it too!I would love to know the answer to this post too.my dad had burst ulcer last week.now has infection in kidneys.would it be ok to give him apple cider vinegarI had indigestion nearly every time I ate, and I was found myself taking Tums a couple times a day. Apple cider vinegar stopped all my indigestion early in the week I started taking it.Can I just take a tablespoon of it everyday?I bought mine in the whole foods section at Kroger.Several years ago I had a bad case of athletes foot. I tried every product on the market and nothing worked. My feet were getting worse and I could barely walk. Not good when your in construction and in boots 14 hours a day. Someone mentioned ACV and I was very skeptical but, what the heck I already tried everything else. Mix 4 parts warm water and 1 part ACV in something you can soak your feet in. The first time burned like you wouldn’t believe because my feet were so cracked. By day three I was actually looking forward to getting in there. LOL  That was the last time I ever had athletes foot. Thank God for ACV for your health inside and out.I am reading that 90% of heartburn sufferers have low acid or almost no acid. If our stomach senses low acid the valve flops open and our stomach contents will go upwards. The amt. of acid we have in our stomach declines with age. The lower esophageal valve is weakened in most heartburn/reflux sufferers which is from many causes,  food diet and age are some.”Why Stomach Acid is Good for You” by Dr. J. Wright is a good source of info.I’m using raw organic acv treat cronic uticaria (hives). It’s only been a week, I’m off of all my allergy meds, have no flare ups and feel great! 2 tbls. in 8 oz. water twice a day before breakfast and dinner. It’s mother natures wonder remedy – I’m convinced!how much do you drink a day?This is the way iv been taking it , this is only my 2nd day and I feel less bloated and loss of appetite .Apply castor oil directly on the wart then covering with duct tape (durable). Wait approximately two weeks; remove tape and the wart comes off with the tape.  Supposedly, the castor oil kills the root of the wart.  Make sure you try to prevent water from saturating the tape while showering or bathing.I have been using Braggs Apple Cider Vinegar every day for 2 weeks now.  I just take a drink from the bottle, and follow it with a cup of water.  My energy level has increased, and I feel better than I have in years!GNC also carries it.it is good por arthritis pain/?Hi dr, I am 34 with congestive heart failure and diabetes and recently told my arteries were hardening, I eat a orgAnic diet and live healthy with nuts seeds berries oils veggies etc, was due to pregnancy and genes etc. I read organic ACV can help melt the hardening of the arteries, I have started drinking it Briggs, along with co q 10 and many other things like lecithin , will this help me? And can u suggest anything else that mite? Thank you Run away from agave – it’s pretty much pure fructose, and is that’s the worst sugar out there.  A real metabolic poison in other than the teeniest amounts.  It’s also the worst bad boy in sucrose (common sugar) and honey, or fruit juice, or cane juice, or dried fruits, etc.  Do your liver a favour and learn to like simple stevia.I use Bragg’s ACV very often if my glucose gets out of normal range, it works wonders! Also when I’m super thirsty, I put a lot of AVC (at least two tablespoons, I don’t count, just pour) in a tall glass with purified h2o, add organic lemon juice, maybe a little stevia & violla!! The perfect thirst quencher evah 🙂
Thank you Dr. Group, for all you do to help others! It sure made my day to meet you at WH-Montrose last Monday! And, I definitely cannot wait till I am able to pick up my book, soon! What is the difference in Heinze ACV? Is it not good for you? What State do you get it at Wal-Mart? We are in Louisiana. I too recently had a toe nail removed and the foot Dr advised me to soak 1 cup of ACV in a foot bath little tub with the rest warm water for 15-20 twice a day. Then alternate the next day with EPSON salt-1 cup to the little foot bath tub ( it’s actually a little plastic tub you used to get when you went to the hospital ) Worked great for me. The Dr RECOMENDED to put Vicks rub on the other toe nails and wear a sick overnight to clear fungus. Worked great for me. Hope this helps you too as well. Walmart also sells Braggs ACV.I’ve used Bragg’s ACV for a few years as a facial toner, twice per day.  1/2 water, 1/2 ACV.  I have moderate cystic acne and this has helped keep it more in control.  It’s not gone completely but I would say that the flare ups are fewer and less severe when they do happen.  I think it helps the texture of my skin, too.  It has not helped with the overproduction of oil or reduced my dark spots, freckles, scars.  The smell is not noticeable after the toner dries!I also I gargle with his straight when I have a sore throat, slowly boil it down to make a sweet syrup, add it to marinades and a rinse my hair with it to remove product build up.  A gal I work with successfully flushed out pink eye with it!  It’s a miracle product!ACV is an amazing skin toner.  It helps fade age spots on arms, evens skin  coloring  and reduces blemishes on face & neck.   It has cleared out a real problem with deep inbedded blackheads at the bra line.   Best more reasonably priced all around skin care going.  Leaves skin smooth & soft.
I decided to try using ACV as my toothpaste.   I’ve had issues with  bad taste (tastes like tooth decay under a crown) in my mouth, so I decided ACV will kill bacteria where brushing & flossing don’t reach.  For the last 2 days, my mouth tastes fresh & no rotten taste.  I don’t rinse my mouth after the ACV brushing.My concern is possibility of ACV being hard on tooth enamel.   Will ACV deteriorate my tooth enamel?
I learned the hard way that lemon water was very had on tooth enamel,
so I am with some concern on doing more harm.I have joint pain my age is 48 I starting take apple vineger with honey whete can i find  ACV amd how should i use many thanksCoat wart, even plantar, with nail polish (I use clear) and leave it.  Re-coat when wears or washes off. Works like a CHARM! I have 3 children who are going through the plantar wart stage, and I tried everything.  This is the most effective, and least time-consuming, method I have ever found.The key word is RAW. I think the studies on web md are for pasterized acv. The live cultures are the benefit.ACV needs to be refrigerated after opening  FYIACV is considered an alkaline because it requires zero stomach acid to digest and is why it’s prescribed for heartburnACV DOES NOT WORK!!! I been using BRAGG for two weeks now.  I still have no energy and stomach cramping. I surely don’t know why the bottle states it is “delicious.”  THIS STUFF IS AWFUL. I DO NOT AND WILL NOT RECOMMEND.When you have flu colds etc add lemon juice to the acv i also add honey.I drink 2 taplespoons in very warm glass of water with honey lemon.Lemon loosens phlem.Be sure to rinse mouth out with as hot of water as possible cause it will over time remove all the enamel on your teeth or just brush them after each use.
 I wouldnt stay on acv for long periods of time as it can have reverse affects if you take it for a very long time.I take it a while then stop for a bit just use common sense.Acv is very good for kidneys and liverI use 2 tblsp in glass of water two time a day.But taking some is better than none and sometimes more is not better use more if you need to if your not seeing results after a few weeks.will take the ename3l from your teeth quite quickly taking it straight.even when mixed with something should rinse mouth with very warm water or brush your teethTake olive leaf extract it is a great product all natural.I take it daily and no longer get cold sores used to get the all the time.Also take grape seed extract this to kills fungus.Olive leaf will actually kill viruses also very good product.Make sure you stay away from things with sugar as that just feeds the yeast.Heinz does not have the mother in it.braggs is not pastureized heinz is.Braggs is the best i have found.Health food stores.Perhaps,your body isn’t absorbing it well. Try a colon cleanse (or two) and that should help. Maybe even a liver cleanse after. As for the taste, it is awful but the benefits of ACV are worth it.What is the dosage for maintenance of good health.
Is 1/2 tablespoon to 1 tablespoon first thing in the morning o.k. every day
Thank You.Rub a little of castor oil on them every day.  They will go away.I have drank this daily, usually twice a day, for the past 3 yrs. and can’t begin to list off all the positive changes! I use 2 Tbs Braggs, 2 Tbs organic lemon juice, packet of Stevia, sometimes cinnamon, in a glass of H2O. It’s good to drink hot if you have a sore throat or congestion. I’m 40 and it has literally turned back the clock for me. I look and feel younger than ever. Tons of energy, never sick, etc.Bragg’s Apple Cider Vinegar got rid of my inflamed gout condition in one day. Drank three glasses of water with it in it at that time to desparately get rid of the gout (and it did), and now drink a glass a day. IT WORKS.Hi-
I have a toe infection due to runner’s toe that I’ve had for a couple months. I went on anti-biotics and had an allergic reaction Bactrim DS- don’t even get me started on that stuff. My question is you suggest putting droplets of ACV on the infection and on the band-aid. My confusion is if the ACV is UN-pastuerized wouldn’t that introduce bacteria that might make the infection worse. Thanks for any help Doctor.DavidI love Bragg’s ACV!! I take a “shot” literally each and every morning!!! I pour it in a small shot glass and chug it down..It gets me going each and every day!! Of course drink plenty of water during the day and the surge is amazing!!! Sometimes when I come home in the evenings and feel a little sluggish from the days work, I will take a small shot before I head out for my daily evening run. The benefits are amazing. Clear skin, energy, and regular bowl movements. It’s like a daily regiment for me!!Heinz now has unpasteurized acv which contains mother vinegar.. I bought some at wal-mart today for $3.98Sooo does it lose it’s effectiveness if i heat the water and drink it like apple cider?I like the taste of ACV and don’t mix it.  Is it harmful doing this?Are you gently warming it up to 100F or boiling it? Boiling will most certainly kill off the beneficial enzymes.
-Dr. Edward GroupI read that hair loss was usually caused by a lack of sulfur in your diet.  So I bought a bottle of MSM (it’s also good for your joints/cartilage).  Don’t know if this just works for women but it was fantastic.  In less than a week my hair seemed thicker and the next week my hairdresser noticed that my “bald” spot on the top of my head was filling in.  Unexpected consequence:  The hair on other parts of my body were growing too, and I had to start shaving my legs again after 10 years. I am 68.Hi, I have question about AVC, I read an article it stated in there that , AVC can help curing Cancer. Its that true? how about loose of appetite, I’m so tin can I still take AVC?when you lost 3 pounds, how about me, I’m so tin do I still need to take AVC.The reason for the weight loss is because it is a natural detox cleanser. It is cleaning out your system of all the “gunk” I don’t think this would be a permanant solution to weight loss, just temporary.Good morning Dr. and all. My question is about Menapause and hot flashes and night sweats. I am about to turn 52 and have been dealing with hot flashes and night sweats for 2 years. I have done everything  from soy,cream, herbs, effexxor ( doc had me on it. worked great for a while. then hot flashes came back, they up the dose, did well, then they came back again. They wanted to up the dosage again and i sid no thank you. And got of them completely.
i started  2 Tbl.s of Braggs AVC in 8 oz of warm wager with a bit of organic honey a day ago. WIll this help? and when will i see any results please? These hot flashes are a doozy! Thank you for your time.Hi Janine,Many people take ACV to support good health and wellbeing. Please give us a follow up comment to let us know if it’s helping your hot flashes. You may also want to check out this article-2 ounces a dayJust because you don’t like the taste doesn’t mean it isn’t working to clear your body of toxins, etc.  2 capfuls in a warm glass of water with 1 tsp of raw honey is delicious.  Has anybody noticed that it helps to whiten teeth or is that my imagination???I began juicing all organic food and my small bald spot grew smaller; will add the MSM though; sounds good.
Does anyone on this blog have leukemia that would like to share what they are doing to help the body heal?  I was reading that ACV could change the blood chemistry for the better in 3 months.  My brother worked for Dr Bragg years ago so I’ve known about ACV for years; did not drink it until lately.Vinegar can take the enamel off your teeth if you drink it straight, can it not?  I wouldn’t do it.I am on my 4th day of taking ACV and I am always tired….will this pass?what is MSM?Does anyone knows if ACV will cure eczema?Check out  for some information.My sister had a wart that survived persistent chemical treatment (not sure what, doctor prescribed); then the doctor burnt it off which slightly scarred the surrounding skin, but didn’t kill the wart . Then she tried applying fresh aloe serveraj times a day, and it went away! I was wondering if  anyone else has had success with aloe getting rid of warts? yes but not aloe.I would like to know how much to take a day. 1 oz. in 4 oz water once a day?There’s no hard and fast rule but 1 oz in 4 oz of water is a great place to start.Thank you,
Patti BolanDear dr can you tell me if ACV is good for gall blluder stone too?Hey Salvina, ACV is definitely one thing you can do for yourself to encourage good health. Gallstones develop for more than on reason and ACV alone may not be a stand alone deterrent but many people use it as part of the equation.I tried taking it undiluted for about four days and an ulcer developed beneath my tongue. Now I’m diluting it with water.Make sure that after diluting the ACV with purified water that you always use a straw when drinking it. My dentist also takes it. Your teeth will always be clean and without cavities. Good luck & here’s to good health for all of you!Why do you mix apple cider vinegar with PURIFIED water? Purified water has chlorine, a deadly poison, in it and it stinks of chlorine badly coming out of the tap too. I tried mixing 1 tablespoon of ACV with 4 ounces of pure water, and it was too difficult to get used to. It was also too hard on my stomach. I then tried juice instead of water and ‘bingo’ problem solved.ACV undiluted, eating an apple or even drinking fruit juices will immediately soften the enamel on your teeth, Experts advise to rinse mouth and or eat some cheese etc to neutralize the acid, Do not to brush your teeth for at least 20 minutes as brushing when enamel is soft will only cause more erosion, if still unclear google tooth erosion, apples and acidic fruit juices do more damage to childrens teeth than candy.hi there can i take apple cider vinegar if i have a candidaDefinitely!I just read 2 tablespoons of raw apple cider vinegar to one gallon of purified water.  If you want a little sweetener use raw locally harvested honey or agave nectar.i need some adsvise ive been constatly sick off and on over a yr now since my dad died last yr. now ive got bouts of bronchitis and breathing problems than ever before.. i used to get bronchitis and flu at least once a yr. is it that i may need to detox my body from toxins? what would you reccommend for severe bronchitis treatments and to get rid of it? my doctor did 3 sets of treatments for it nothing has worked.. they said i may need to go to a lung
doctor i do not smoke and never had these issues before.. what would you recommend for lung problems and chronic bronchitis to heal it up? im coughing all night long and cant get rid of the mucus and other bronchitis symptoms.. what would you recommend to get rid of this? ive had this now for over a month.. i get sinis infections alot too. what do i do? thanksIt’s not a fix for your health problems but I would recommend that anyone whose health is not what they want, who has never cleansed their body, to consider a comprehensive cleansing protocol.The people who have done this consistently have good things to say —Dear Dr. Group,
I have had chronic mucous and lung inflamation for 3 years now.  I no longer eat dairy or grains.  Is there anything you can recommend to break this up and get it out of my body?  I want to be healed from it.  Thank you so very much.   Joy in Florida.P.S. – This sinus and lung infection started 3 years ago when I woke up with a bright red nose with a wart on it a few days later.  I felt soreness in my underarm glands and then I noticed the constant mucus in the back of my throat.  Now it comes up every morning, after I eat, and every night when I lie down.  I’ve tried everything I know. Thanks.Have you had anyone take a closer look and determine what’s causing it?Really?!?!?! Nail polish normally contains FORMALDEHYDE, a deadly toxin that can kill humans…. this is a little silly to worry about a wart when you’re coating your childrens skin with formaldehyde!!! NO NO.“Burns To The Esophagus”???? lol. I drink it straight and I don’t have any “Burns”….. This is just hilarious. Just because it’s alkaline doesn’t mean it’s going to burn your throat……… What about salad dressing. Noone dilutes it there, does everyone get burns from eating salad dressing!!! hahahha!! And the whole point of digesting ACV is that its a digestive aid. Dilute it and it’s like drinking water just after you’ve eaten a massive carb / protein loaded meal….. You dilute your stomach acids and make a huge work load for your stomach to pump MORE stomach acid to break down the food… Sorry, I prefer mine UNdiluted, and Always have. You don’t have to dilute it, and I think it is not undermining the actual reason for ingesting acv, like you should not dilute stomach acids, for better bodily function. A sip of water to swish the mouth is no problem afterwards to prevent saturation of the teeth with ACV and is all that is needed. After all I don’t know anyone who dilutes their salad dressing, teeth enamel or no…..I would not worry about “counting calories” when I am ingesting a superfood loaded with vitamins, minerals, enzymes,,, do your body a favour and forget classic conditioning of “calories”, drink the honey as well (just make sure it’s living, raw honey and not store bought pasteurised dead stuff that is basically nothing but sugar, all the good stuff is cooked out of it) thats the only honey you need to be wary of. The raw stuff, well it’s like saying an apple gives me x calories, but i won’t eat it for that reason, despite the fact that it is loaded with vitamins and minerals that my body needs and cannot live without…. I am just worried about calories… it shows you’re focusing on the wrong thing. You should really only worry about calories when it comes to Mcdonalds, chocolate, dairy, pastries, cakes, etc. Not fruit, vegetables, raw honey, (and you’re not exactly going to eat a bucket full, are you? we’re only talking a teaspoon perhaps!) and other unprocessed, healthful plant sourced foods!!!!and when he says stevia, he means the UNprocessed stuff. The crumbled, dried herb. Not the crap white powders….. get rid of processed foods and go back to nature. Use the herb only. Processed foods will add to your bone loss or “demineralisation” over time as you are robbing them of nutrients needed to buffer the acid from eating processed foods! So to eat powdered white “isolate” or “extract” stevia is basically perpetuating this demineralisation cycle.No, perhaps for some people who insist on a “miracle cure” or “magic pill” while they continue to eat Mcdonalds, chocolate, processed, additive laden, meat and dairy laden heavy saturated fats type SAD food,,,, they won’t find one superfood will counteract their bad lifetime habits. So sorry your lifestyle is affording you a lack of energy and cramping. This indicates your diet requires an overhaul, not a teaspoon of ACV.
Also, the fact that you dislike it’s taste is perhaps slightly indicative of your lack of familiarity? Such as, in salad dressings? Salads? No? hmm…… back to the drawing board for you, my dear. How about you cut out anything that is not a raw fruit or vegetable in your diet for 3 weeks. I know, for someone who may not eat a vegetable in their life, this may be hard, but it will cure your energy problems and cramping (provided you eat lots of magnesium and potassium)…. ACV is not a magic pill peoples, your daily diet over your lifetime is your ONLY magic pill!Just going back to eating plants should do the trick, rather than going all out poking yourself, fruit and veges do the same thing from the inside out! With no discomfort or any extra effort! Who’da thunk it!U freakN rock!Is there any studies on taking ACV with certain medications.  I am taking blood thinners and wondered if it would interact with the ACV. I am also taking cholesterol medications. I just know that things like eating grapefruit which is acidic can cause some major complications with meds. Would ACV do the same thing?Thanks ahead for any info.Haven’t seen anything to that effect… can any other readers offer input?Salima, when your body begins to detox you see changes in your body.  You may develop rashes, get pimples, bad breath, increased body odor, changes in the color and quality of your urine and feces.  These are all signs of detoxification.  Sometimes when you clean out your garbage can it stinks (same premise).  My recommendation would be to reduce the amount of ACV that you were consuming until you are comfortable.  Be patient, once your system is detoxed and stabilized your symptoms will subside.  I my opinion drinking something natural can never be bad.I have a quick question for Dr. G. if possible.  I’m pregnant with gestational diabetes.  I would like to start the ACV to help control my sugars.  Is it safe to start (in small doses, of course) while pregnant?  I’m not on insulin. Diet controlled only.ACV is incredible stuff but it’s also just food. There’s no reason it should give you any trouble.Pingback: ()I don’t agree with the use of agave nectar. Maybe RAW honey.
Best to drink plain if you are truly on a detox. Unfortunately most “healthy alternative” sweeteners convert to fructose. Most stevia brands contain inulin and dextrose = bad.
Why such a big deal? If you are truly in a health crisis, all of your detoxing efforts will be cancelled out by adding sugars. You want to make sure you are using pure Raw products without any hidden ingredients for optimal results. Pingback: ()Pingback: ()I have been told that raw apple cider vinegar will help heal hemroids I would like to know if this is trueVery true ,,,,,Update: I’m now taking 3 teaspoons of Bragg’s Organic Apple Cider in an 8 to 10 oz glass of water 3 times a day. I’m also eating 4 tablespoons of (VCO) Virgin Coconut Oil a day.  When I feel an illness coming on I take 6 to 8 tablespoons of VCO until I’m free of all symptoms. Get the book entitled “Coconut Cures”  Preventing and Treating Common Health Problems with Coconut by Bruce Fife, N.D. Bruce Fife has done more research than anyone alive on coconut & has many other books available, including a book devoted entirely on coconut recipes. Using Virgin Coconut Oil for cooking is also excellent since it has a much higher boiling point than Virgin Olive Oil does.You have not been taking it properly. Take the time to do some research & you will get all of the right answers. It must be diluted in fresh clean water, not tap & you must use a straw while drinking it. Take 1 to 2 teaspoons in an 8 to 10 oz glass of water for starters. I have been taking 3 teaspoons with 3 glasses of Bragg’s ACV a day. One upon awakening, one in mid-morning, and the last one early afternoon.Braggs w/the mother says right on the label in dark bold print: “Refrigeration is not needed.”Hi Emily,
I’m wondering the same thing. They used to use wood casks but health regulators have made them change to stainless steel barrels. Your question about the nickel (esp with vinegar being very acidic) is a very good one!
Dr Group, your thoughts?Hi Dr. Group,
Have just joined and appreciate the ‘desperately needed’ good work you’re doing, thank you!
I have just learnt that Braggs now uses stainless steel barrels instead of wood casks (health regulators have made them all switch). Since vinegar is very acidic, the thought of nickel leeching into it sends up a red flag, to me anyways! I’ve been using Braggs ACV for a few months & now I’m concerned about what the nickel content might be?! eeeks! Your thoughts, thank you!Pingback: ()I lost 15 pounds on apple cider vinegar taken as directed on this site. Two tablespoons in a gallon of water. But then the weight leveled off and I then began to GAIN weight. The weight loss effect sadly for me did not last. I did not change my eating habits and I eat a Paleo diet, did not change my exercise plan. I am going to give ACV a try again and see what happens.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Can you get the same benefits by mixing a TBS. of ACV with a smoothie or food?Probably but the main complaint I’ve heard from people there is the altering of the taste. Maybe it’d work well with lemon and apple juice.Cynthia, You are so funny!  lol  Bragg vinegar isn’t the answer to everything.  For a healthy person Braggs really is a good product.  Blessings to you.  O:)Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()I would like to know, how do you take ACV to help reduce high blood pressure?Take it as a shot or mix it with water!If it will help you with that, it will help by consuming it.Is apple cider vineger helpful for kidney stones?It can help some people, check this out:I dilute my ACV in distilled water and use either honey or stevia to tolerate the taste.Pingback: ()Great info. Thanks! Just one question, empty stomach or eat something before taken the raw ACV.I like it on an empty stomach!Pingback: ()r u all going to believe what this guy says? 5% acid the bottle says it contains. If you don’t get enough nutrition in your diet, you’ll eventually have no teeth and your bones become brittle. Why? ACID and not enough nutrition intake to counter the ACID. Do not start taking ACV just because this guy with all these so called professional titiles after his name says for you to do so. After all, the system that granted him these certificates don’t teach you true wisdom, anything of true value so how could he really offer it to you.Pingback: ()Ready for the ride, I lost my gallbladder  over a year ago. I’m not feeling up to par, Tmi’s to state….be back on in 1 week, should I notice something by then?Raw Apple Cider Vinegar is good for your overall health, so don’t look at it as a weight loss regiment. I take 2 tablespoons with a coffee cup size of hot water and raw honey for sweetner. It’s best to drink this tonic at least two to three times a day. If you try it this way, then you may see the results you are looking for. I know it gives me lots of energy and I do feel good after drinking my tunic.Apple cider vinegar can also help in curing kidney stones. I
know because I have several friends who used ACV to get rid of their stones. Being
highly acidic, it can soften kidney stones and eventually dissolves it.  ACV can also remove blackheads warts, and moles.
And I agree, Braggs the best there is… pure and organic. Great article by the
way.Pingback: ()I have an apple allergy, is there any close substitute to ACV? I would like to do the kidney cleanse but I feel like perhaps something is missing w/o the ACV. Thanks!It’ll be tough to replace and it wouldn’t be a total replacement but you could take extra enzymes and probiotics.Do you not know that all vinegars are toxic?You should know this as Dr. Detox.Vinegar contains 5% acetic acid.Acetic acid is a poison.Vinegar can be effective at removing unnatural phenomena on the surface of the skin, but it should never be consumed.Imagine how clueless the so called health company “Bragg live foods” must be about proper nutrition, since they have recommended the consumption of vinegar for decades already.And what, pray tell, are your qualifications, sour puss? Anecdotal observations don’t count  for shi….anything.Stop eating greased up foods. You have too much grease in you for anything to work past it.  I hate the taste of avc myself but the benefits from it is remarkable. Not only I have noticed energy level inclined in me, but I noticed I pooped nice long solid iguana out of my but which my doctor says is how it should be. I lost almost 20 lbs in past 3 months of AVC usage which also helped my penis stick out 1/2 an inch more coz my gut went in a lot, I lost like 2 sizes in past 3 months. Something about AVC makes my skin glow. Lmao. :-D. ENJOY folks.Pingback: ()YES!!!  LEUKEMIA!!!!  OK, for 5 years my WBC and neutrophils were very, very high.  My rhummy, a whole other story, ignored the blood just as he did everything else.  When we discovered many other problems including “honeycombing of the lungs” – last stage untreated, UNDIAGNOSED lupus………..I QUIT THE MEDICAL B.S.
After researching for 5 months, taking about 30 different kinds of supplements, etc.  I attribute MY NOW NORMAL BLOOD (actually in over 21 years) to taking 35% food grade H2O2.  I started with 1 drop/day, then 2, 3, 4, up to the dropper full of 18.  AFTER ANOTHER 5 MONTHS OF DOING THIS, I finally got the nerve to see the hemo/onco I was referred to………….AGAIN, FOR THE FIRST TIME IN YEARS………….MY BLOODWORK WAS NORMAL!!!!  I drank this in distilled water.  I hope this helps for your brother.My husband’s father was Amish, and we have this recipe for “vinegar punch” from him.
In a gallon container:
3/4 c. apple cider vinegar
3/4 c. sugar or honey
scant 1/2 t. nutmeg
mix and fill to 1 gal. water
We drink this if we get too hot outside or in the hot, humid days that are common in Delaware summers. I notice that it uses quite a bit more vinegar that you recommend. We do not drink it for a normal beverage, only when it is really hot. Would love to have your evaluation of this, Dr. Group.I’d go with the honey over the sugar but it sounds like it would be good!Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()In other words,skipping all of the holidays and eating dull rabbit food for the rest of our lives, listening to type “A ” people micromanage every bite while raving  about the entire succulent lettuce buffet they just consumed. No Thanks.A two liter works for me.If all else fails,take 1/2 cup of extra virgin olive oil and pour it over the left shoulder at 3:15 am standing on your right foot only.In other words,OCD MD doesn’t work for me.You must have the palate of Bobcat Goldthwait lol! :0)Even the Tin man needed some oil. Give it a try.I have used Bragg’s to successfully “cure” menorrhagia in perimenopause. It is my assumption that we are subjected to many xenoestrogens in plastic products and that is causing extreme hormonal imbalance in women and men. I can only speak for myself when I say that I avoided a hysterectomy by using Bragg’s. My search for a “cure” was found on Earth Clinic by the many women suffering from menorrhagia. I highly recommend it.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()If Apple cider vinegar contains, Potassium, Pectin, Malic Acid, Calcium, Ash, Acetic Acid, why don’t the bottles list them as required?Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()2 8 oz. glasses of water a day with a teaspoon of both ACV and honey…tastes fairly good warm. I’ve found that it also helps lower blood pressure.I LIKE ACV AND IT WORKS FOR BOWEL MOVEMENTS, HEARTBURN, AND ARTHRITIS, 1 shot glass 1 oz in the morning with 6-8 oz pure water and 1 oz at night with 6-8 oz water, stops muscle twitches in legs and shoulders, also mix it with bicarbonate of soda for energy. 8 oz pure water, 1oz acv + 1 teaspoon bicarb stir until bubbles stop, down the hatch…results that work.WHEN YOU THINK OF HEALTH THINK OF FOOD THAT GROWS, THAT IS ALIVE, THATS WHAT YOUR BODY LIKES…plus all kinds of VITAMINS and Herbs.THATS WHY A STRAW IS HANDY IT KEEPS THE ACV OFF YOUR TEETH.Trial and error method works for me…right on.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()I’ve been drinking Bragg’s apple cider vinegar for some time now.  Some days I miss but try to drink 2 shot glasses a day and I drink it straight then chase with water. Have not had any problems with my teeth enamel.  It doesn’t taste the best going down but once I chase it with water (sometimes tap and sometimes bottled) it goes away quickly.  Also noticed that it bothers me if I have an empty stomach so try to take if after having food.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()God bless Dr. Moonlight for his marvelous work in my life, I was diagnosed of DIABETES since 2014 and I was taking my medications, I wasn’t satisfied i needed to get the Diabetes out of my system, I searched about some possible cure for Diabetes, i saw a comment about Dr. Moonlight, how he cured Diabetes with his herbal medicine, I contacted him and he guided me. I asked for solutions, he started the remedy for my health, he sent me the medicine through UPS SPEED POST. I took the medicine as prescribed by him and 3 weeks later i was cured from Diabetes, Dr. Moonlight truly you are great. Do you need his help also? Why don’t you contact him through   Thanks.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Am from Uganda where can I buy the Braggs Apple cider vinegarPingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()My children were looking for TX H1155 last month and were made aware of an online platform with an online forms database . If others are interested in TX H1155 too , here’s Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Good article, Thanks!Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()I am currently taking magnesium and the two times I had ACV I had to make a bee line to the bathroom. Anyone else have this problem?Go to Larry’s Natural Food Mart right there on the corner in Uganda. You can’t miss it.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()I give 3/4 tablespoon to my dog who had chronic UTI’s and she has not had one since.  She was in her vet’s office at least once every 1-2 months for this.  For reference, she is 25 lbs.Pingback: ()Apple cider Vinegar useful for blood pressure and encourages normal cholesterol.I love Bragg’s!Great Post.Organic raw apple cider vinegar undergoes two fermentation processes where it produces enzymes and life-giving nutrients that make it a nutritious powerhouse.Well, keep on drinking it and soon you will have no energy and stomach cramping to boot!
Patience, Grasshopper.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()gary you must be a lonely man. you are a very bitter and distastefull person lol