Due to the extreme processes that milk goes through and the high amounts of antibiotics, hormones, and genetically-modified substances that cows are continually exposed to, I believe there are real and eminent concerns associated with drinking milk from cows. All cows release toxins through their milk, as milk is a natural exit-portal for substances that the body cannot use.          Not only are people drinking these toxins, they are also taking in the energetic effects of the life of the cow.    Studies show that many cows are infected with incredibly painful infections such as mastitis.  Due to over-milking, artificial hormones, bacteria and medications, cow’s udders can become chronically inflamed, thus altering the color and taste of the milk.    Over time, this bacterial invasion causes harm to the cow’s mammary gland, reeking havoc on the milk being produced. From parasitic worms to cancerous tumors, these diseases are often passed along to the next generation of cows, and more often, into the milk we drink.    Often times the conditions in which cows live, as well as the rigorous milking regimes, cause dairy cattle to live in a permanent state of sympathetic (stress) response, as well as adrenal over-load. When our adrenal glands are overworked for long periods of time, there is a overload of cortisol in the blood. When we drink this milk, we are then exposed to the millions of stress-response cells in the milk of cows. It is no wonder that we are a chronically stressed society!  Here are some ways to avoid the dangers associated with cow’s milk:    
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.you realise the first photo is NOT dairy cows……those are BEEF COWS……….If you don’t know the difference I suggest you “google” it.At least get your photos correct!At the end of the day, does it really matter if it’s a picture of a dairy cow or beef cow.  The pic doesn’t change the information presented or the fact that cow milk is altered beyond belief.As a casual reader that found this post via twitter, I wouldn’t know the difference between the two. But I bet that both beef cows and dairy cows produce milk, and if that’s the case… then does the photo truly matter?I believe Scott’s comment stems from the disconnect most of the public has from agriculture.  It may be true what is presented here, however to assume every glass of milk is unsafe and consequently every dairy farmer is unethical, is naive.  If in fact they are beef cows, it suggests a lack of research and insight into the topic and simply takes away from Dr. Group’s credibility.Sorry, but I’m not buying that. Simply put its a photograph of a cow. And attaching a photograph, that it appears he found via flickr, doesn’t take away from the credibility of the research presented here. Especially when he starts off by saying he is not “anti-milk” and goes on to say “make sure to buy only the non-genetically modified, range fed, organic raw versions.” From my perspective, it doesn’t appear that he’s saying ALL farmers are unethical, but just wants to discuss some of the dangers surrounding the stuff SOME farmers add to milk.If you would like to know the truth about how dairy cows are treated, you can visit Not only is milk one of the most highly regulated and safest foods in the country, it is also one of the most nutritious. Each glass of milk you drink has been tested 17 times before it reaches you. Any milk that is found to not be perfect is disposed of, and never, never reaches the grocery store. I can ensure your readers, that no dairy products contain antibiotics – strict government standards ensure that both regular and organic milk are wholesome, safe and nutritious.  Organic or non-organic dairy products, all are equally healthy and safe to consume. I want to reiterate, NO dairy products contain antibiotics – strict government standards ensure that both regular and organic milk are wholesome, safe and nutritious.Sometimes it’s necessary for farmers to treat cows with antibiotics when they are ill, just as humans sometimes need medication when they are sick. It’s important to note that any cow being treated for illness is separated from the milking herd to ensure her milk does not go into the milk supply. Just as it is important for a parent to ensure the safety and health of their child, it is the highest-priority of dairy farmers to make sure cows receive regular medical care, including periodic check-ups, vaccinations and prompt treatment of illness.As a former dairy farmer, I know that all dairymen and women ensure that dairy cows are given high-quality care. Did you know that dairy cows have their own personal nutritionists, doctors and caretakers? The fact is, dairy farming is hard work, and it takes a lot of love and respect for a cow and the land to be a farmer. I urge any one who would like to know the truth behind dairy farming to visit  – get the facts! And remember, no matter which variety you choose, you should feel good about supporting family dairy farms by getting your 3-A-Day of dairy, low-fat milk, cheese and yogurt!Seriouslly people, who cares what’s in the picture! It’s the facts of the article that are important. Thank goodness he didn’t put a picture of a human in the article. The ignorants out there might have mistaken the cows milk for human milk! Yikes!Daniel- I agree with Daniel.  THere is a huge disconnect between the general public and where their food comes from.  As a dairy producer I can say that not all cows are mis-treated and stressed out.  We milk 65 registered holsteins that have ample pasture and room in a free stall barn to lay down so the comfort is a #1 priority.  We do not use any enhancement hormones and if there has been antibotics of any sort used the milk is withheld from bulk tank.  I realize the disclaimer was made at the beginning about not being “anti-milk” but i felt the majority of the article is based on negative generalizations.T. Hubert,I can absolutely guarantee that no farmers are adding anything to milk.  Before any dairy product is on store shelves, it is tested several times to make sure the product is safe.  If a farmer ever has a tank of milk show up with any extra substance, the whole semi of milk is dumped and the farmer can loose his license to sell milk and is shut down.  All farmers take the safety of their products seriously.And whoever wrote this article should be ashamed of the lack of research and valid data.  Your claim of 1.5 million white blood (SCC) cells is flat out wrong.  The legal limit is half of that; regardless, farmers are paid in part of this number so it is in the farmers best interest financially as well as care of the animals that this number is low.  Most milk sold is less than 1/10th of what you claim!Wow, more than anything. I think it’s hilarious that a picture of a beef cow, not a dairy cow, would cause such a stir.  I mean, I didn’t necessarily think it was a spot-on article, and I will continue to give my two boys milk, and talk to his doctor about hemp milk and other alternatives… But, as an educated man who grew up in the hillcountry of Texas, I didn’t even know there was a difference between a beef cow and a dairy cow. I thought all cows produce milk.Dr. Group,For someone with a number of advanced degrees, I am disappointed that you have failed to research and properly present all information in your post.1.  All milk from animals has hormones in it (organic or not)
2.  Milk sold in stores is antibiotic free.  It must test so before it can be sold to the public (organic or not)
3.  The pus and blood you mention do occur, but those cows are found by properly trained farm workers and removed from the general milking herd for proper treatment.  These farms have quality standards to adhere to spelled out in a contractual agreement with their milk processor.  To sell milk from these cows is a violation.  (organic or not)
4.  Farms cannot simply afford to “keep their cows pumped up on antibiotics.”  When was the last time you or your readers purchased a prescription?  Think farmers could afford to do that with their cows that weigh 1000 pounds or more on a daily basis?
5.  Bovine growth hormone is present in all milk (organic or not).
6.  The limits you mention for blood and “pus” are double what the true legal limits are.  Milk processors generally require limits of one-sixth your numbers listed.While I appreciate giving consumres the choice and opportunity to purchase cow’s milk in whatever form (organic or conventional) fills their needs, I believe it is only fair that you present the ENTIRE truth.As I read this article, I did my best to keep an open, unbiased mind on this individual’s presented information. Is this a Dr. speaking from a food or animal perspective? I am from a farm in the heart of the midwest, The Ice cream capital of the world is not very far away from me. My family used to milk but decided to pursue a different enterprise, so we got out of milking. I have an adequate amount of knowledge for all aspects of farm production, having been involved in raising large quantities of animals, and I don’t mean 100 either, I mean by the 1,000s. So believe ME, I have personally experienced animal production. I am going to shine some light on the subject of animal production for all producers, every species, whether organic or not. Livestock is a way of life for some farmers/ranchers. They take pride in what they do day in and day out, how many people can honestly say they do? Producers take better care and more responsibility for all the animals, then some families can take care of a pet! So when people start talking about farmers make sure to have and present the whole truth! This article’s author just lost all creditability for the information that they came up with for this paper, it is written of phalicies, hasty generalizations and false advertisements. So for that lady that asked who even cares earlier, It makes a difference, it shows to knowledge and the qualifications of the author. If this was a thesis paper for a degree.IT would say plainly in red ink FAIL! and  it might actually be stamped twice just to be sure the author could see,this is a FALSE article and they might want to look in to a different profession if this is the quality of work they are going to submit to publish. I am beginning to wonder if this Dr. bought the degree online for $10.99 plus shipping?This article is a testiment to the authers lack of knowledge of the dairy industry. He clealy has no knowledge what is legally allowed in milk. Milk is one of the most regulated foods in the world. There are strick standards which milk must meet before it can be sold. In addition he has very little knowledge of current milk production methods in the US. I would also challenge him to provide his sources for this article. On a side note in the academic world a .com website does not count as a reference. After reading this I wonder if he has every actually spent a day on a dairy farm. Because if he had he would of seen the men and women who work with the cattle to produce milk. It is not uncommon for a dairymen to put in over 12 hours a day and they are passionate about what they do. During those long days their number one goal is to make sure that their cows are as comfortable as possible. This is because, unlike the auther, all dairymen know that a comfortable cows are happy cows and happy cows are profitable cows. In addition I would like to let the auther know that it is illegal to sell milk with antibiotic residues. Cows treated with antibiotics must have their milk dumped down the drain. So as you can see it is not in a dairymen’s best interest to be treating his cows with anitbiotics all the time. However as a dairymen I can tell you if my cow is sick I am going to do all I can to make sure that she can return to being a profitable member of my herd. After I looked at all the credentials that Dr. Group has listed I felt sad. That such an educated man would allow himself to write such a bias article about a subject that he has little knowledge of. Finally to the author if dairymen, which I am, really don’t care about their animals could you explain to me how from memory I could give you the name, disposition, and a basic background of each of my animals. Oh and by the way in case you are wondering that would be roughly 1000 animals.Unfortunately, simply saying the author is not “anti-milk” isn’t a qualifier for credibility.  Beverages that are derived from nuts or seeds are not milk, they are simply  another beverage and have been mislabeled for years.In regards to the discussion over the types of photos used in the blog, even though not a significant portion of the argument, the lack of knowledge between a beef cow and dairy cow leads the educated reader to believe that perhaps the author is not thoroughly versed in the subject he wishes the reader to assume he is an expert on.  Yes, beef cattle do produce milk, but they produce milk for their calves, not to be put into a jug and sold on your grocery store shelf.Many of the points about the safety of US dairy products I would make have previously been stated by other commenters on this site and therefore I will not beat a dead horse and offer up redundancy.  However, as a dairy producer myself, I can reiterate that the dairy industry is one of the most highly regulated industries in the nation.  All milk that goes for human consumption (conventional or organic) is antibiotic free, safe, and extremely healthy and nutritious.  After all, milk is nature’s most nearly perfect food.What’s in the picture matters because it is an indicator of the author’s general disregard for accuracy. Not only did this person provide a picture of beef cattle, which do not produce near the amount of milk that dairy cattle do and therefore are not used for that purpose, but also the article itself is riddled with errors. Not one of the figures or claims presented in this article is in any way valid. The comments about antibiotics and pus in milk were especially ludicrous. Dairy farmers that have poor milk quality lose their license to distribute milk, not to mention that many are paid premiums for exceptional milk quality (low white blood cell counts). Every batch of Grade A milk is tested for antibiotic residue before it even leaves the farm. A tank of milk testing positive gets dumped down the drain, the farmer loses all that money, earns a bad reputation, and quite possibly loses his license to distribute Grade A milk. That’s right, antibiotic residue could mean the loss of his livelihood. Also, a sick cow is a cow that is not making the amount of milk she could, and dairy farmers get paid for each hundred pounds of milk, so it is in their best interest to keep their animals healthy and reduce their stress where ever possible.I appreciate everyone who has commented to correct the many inaccurate “facts” and assumptions published in this article, both about milk safety/quality and cow care.I am a dairy farmer, and I would be out of business within a month if I managed my farm using methods which the author suggests are commonplace within the dairy industry.  The truth is that dairy farmers (and all livestock producers) are committed to providing safe, high-quality food products for the American public, and raising healthy animals in a low-stress environment is the cornerstone management priority that allows us to do just that.  Milk is among the most rigorously tested food products for both safety and quality in the marketplace, and it is recommended that everyone consume three servings of dairy products daily as a part of a balanced, calorie controlled diet.  That being said, consumers have every right to buy alternative products instead of dairy.  I just hope that those who do will make their choice based upon their own preferences and the merits of those other products and not because they’ve been scared away from dairy products by inaccurate articles such as this.Thank you Dr. Group for providing information that (apparently) dairy farmers don’t want us to know about.As a fellow dairyman I can attest to all that Will said. The US Milk supply is the only food supply regulated from the very start to when it reaches the consumer.Great article Dr. Group! I completely agree that you if you are going to drink Cow’s Milk, then you should drink it organic, and really know where you are getting it from. Thank you for presenting the other side of the coin. Obviously, some people disagree, but I for one would like to thank you.OMG! They used a picture of a beef cow, not a dairy cow… Therefore the information presented MUST be false!!!/sarcasmI as a dairy farmer am proud of my product and is more than happy to discuss it with you!  We are hiding nothing and if you would like to visit a farm yourself, reply on here and hopefully we can get you lined up to visit a farm.   As far as requirements go on making sure milk is safe, I urge you to visit the FDA’s website and attempt to read the requirements and hoops a farmer must go through before they can sell any milk.   Just an fyi, but if farmers didn’t love what they were doing and caring for their animals, they wouldn’t be getting up at 4 AM and putting in 14 hour days to loose money out of their pockets due to current milk prices.Dr. Group –Thank you for giving us this information, even in the face of adversity. I don’t know the difference between a beef cow and dairy cow, and despite the people below saying that the article is wrong because of the image. I think it’s silly, because it just appears pathetic, because that’s all they got to pick on you about. Keep up the good fight!There are many misrepresentations in the article. Mastitis milk is NOT shipped for human consumption any more than the medicated milk – that’s why there is withdrawal times on drugs. The comments below – yes it matters what is represented because the information given is inaccurate. Goat cheese is better – and with all due respect to the cattle dairymen here – that can be true *but* goats cannot compete with cattle for volume. Pound for pound a good goat will outmilk a cow but in total amount produced there’s a reason dairy cattle are used. Also it is just as easy to have a poorly run goat dairy as a poorly run cow dairy – either will not produce the quality product consumers want. A well run dairy is more productive. Frankly IMO the best is raw milk but due to misinformation and – yes – processing/regulation it is difficult if not impossible to buy raw milk anymore. Bad for you? Well – my step-mom’s parents were still milking Brown Swiss into their 80s and not with automated machines either – milking into cans which were taken and dumped into a bulk tank through a filter. They drank milk from their cows and both lived beyond 90.They do – but not all cows produce milk *for human consumption* – those beef cows never see a milking parlor. It’s misleading as are the “facts” presented. The statistics given are not true.Thank you Dr. Group, I’ve always believed that if we were meant to drink cow’s milk, we would’ve come out of the womb saying “MOOOO!!!”great link Tom!  In table one on the US FOOD AND DRUG ADMISTRATION website, it shows the legal limit, and for some  reason it is drastically different than Dr. Group’s “research”.  Now who should we believe?ya know, I never realized until now, what is actually in milk. But it does make sense.  If it’s possible for the milking machine to leave sores on the cows, then it’s reasonable to think that the pus from those  infections would drain into the milking machine and/or into the milk that is ultimately shipped out. And that’s just disgusting, even if the FDA allows it.Sorry, but that doesn’t necessarialy mean that I’m going to belive you either, especially when the FDA has been shown in the past to be biased with certain pharmaceutical companies.While you don’t agree with this article, and I don’t agree 100% either, the facts do remain that there is added chemicals and hormones in milk. And the FDA does allow a certain percentage of pus and various other contaminants to remain in millk.First of all, I think that this kind of debate is great–exactly what we need in a culture where quality of food and health is mostly ignored. My family are cattle ranchers in South Dakota, breeding meat cattle, not dairy, but the conditions are mostly the same. Not bad, but not ideal. As a nutritionist, I also know that milk and most dairy is not digestible by most people in the world, the exception being those with northern european ancestors. Millk does have naturally occuring hormones as well as naturally occurring opiates. Like anything else, there are more nutrients in raw, unpasteurized milk. If you are going to feed it to your children or drink it yourself, lets support farmers who are working for a better and cleaner world. Support local. Then organic and lets get farming back to the way it used to be–sustainable both for family farmers and for the earth.jen
I knew that there were steroids and hormones added to my milk, but I didn’t know that there could be pus and blood cells in there!  Why would the USDA allow any of that in there? People drink this stuff! Thanks for the info.oh, look at the pretty cows.Nothing is 100% safe. It’s a matter of taking the facts you’re presented, and making an informed decision. I’ve always been weary of cow’s milk, but I still drink it on occasion. And that probably won’t change soon.Can you clarify what contaminants supposedly in milk?  I have never seen pus in any milk at the grocery store.  The hormones in milk are natural and produced by every living thing we consume.  Did you know that the celery that you eat has hormones?  I find it frustrating that people throw the conspiracy flag at anything that they don’t understand and assume the world is trying to hurt them.  I am a dairy farmer and I take pride in my product, if you want conspiracy theories, go after big oil, not farmers that take better care of their cows than their families.  I have a nutritionist come each week and take samples and balance a ration of feed so my cows get every nutrient criteria met.  I have a veterinarian come 2 times per month for regular check-ups.  Do your children get that type of care?  I doubt it.Dear Dr. Group,Great article!  As a fellow Naturopath, I concur with your findings and definitely believe and support your opinions on this topic.  The only other thing I would like to mention is that in nature, humans are the only species that consume milk from another species.  It just simply isn’t done in nature at all.  You don’t ever see a lion going over and “nursing” from a cow or a goat.  Species within nature keep to their own kind when consuming milk AND they only do it during “nursing” time.  My personal opinion is that humans should be doing that as well.  Many, MANY of my patients have breast-fed their babies and then stopped at age 2-3 when the child naturally wanted to eat normal food.  Those children that I have watched grow up, are far healthier than other children that have grown up consuming dairy products.  Of course then when you add in all the hormones and antibiotics, it makes for a mighty dangerous cocktail (especially for children) and certainly doesn’t contribute much nutritionally to the human body.
Thanks for another great article!If you use that logic, we should eat wheat directly out of the field and not process or cook it since no other animals do that.I have to disagree with your claim that milk doesn’t provide any thing nutritionally.  Milk contains Calcium, phosphorus, potassium, Vitamin D, Vitamin A, Vitamin B12, riboflavin, niacin, and proteins.  I call that pretty nutritious!I support your statement milk can bring a host of problems for health.In India specially in cities many cows have T.B.  such cows yield normal quantity of milk .Such milk spread T.B easily.   In my case I get asthma when ever I take milk because it is mucus forming and allergic to many asthmatics.
Naturopaths advise to avoid milk , it is a non-veg food in few societies.It is better to avoid milk and without milk one can live healthyI agree..
humans have the ability to normally adapt to whatever diet is present. I believe that to be a strength of our species. To say we can not drink milk because no other animal does, is like saying we should poop in the woods and eat our own refuse because animals do.
We have the teeth, gut length, and enzymes necessary  to break down our varied food in normal conditions. The problem arises when our environment becomes artificial,toxic, and altered, and we become diseased.  I drink RAW, milk, I eat plenty of RED(organic)meat, I eat cheese, and I am healthy. I would say I thrive on a diet of at least 70% meat,milk, cheese, etc. It annoys me when the twig chewers assume that we should all eat like that to be healthy. It also misleads other body types into believing the only way to health is eating like everyone else.I only drink RAW cow’s milk, and even then, I don’t necessarily feel that it’s the best thing to drink. Cows Milk may provide the nutrients listed above, but you can also get those same nutrients from other sources, without ingesting all these added hormones, chemicals, steroids, and pus.Dairy is a great comfort food but since cutting it out completely from my diet I have experienced great benefits such as weight loss, clear lungs, increased amount of energy, etc. This is just a personal account of how cutting out dairy improved my health but after reading about the pus, now that is reason alone not to drink milk!THERE IS NO PUS IN MILK!  Read the responses below.  These are exaggerated claims by someone make up data to support his claims.Has anyone ever seen “pus” in their milk?  Anyone?If I were to spit in your milk, you may not see my saliva, but that doesn’t mean it’s not there! There is in fact pus in milk from cows given the rBGH growth hormone. The Center for Food Safety, , and the FDA has both supported this fact.Read Dr. Weston Price’s Articles on milk.
Our grandparents did not have problems in their days as we do now with milk.
PURE Milk is good for human consumption.
Check out realmilk.com
It’s the homogenized crap that’s been messed with that’s producing so many problems.This is an interesting post, but I don’t think there’s something wrong with cow’s milk; unless you are lactose intolerant or you’ve drink a spoiled one. I still believe that cow’s milk is a great source of protein and calcium, where it helps build our bones, muscles and teeth strong.This sounds like a bunch  of fear mongering to me, for the most part cow’s milk is safe and a healthy immune system should have no problem digesting it.If you think this is fear mongering, you might want to check out other sites. Just like humans, a cow’s immune system is not what it used to be. Things are different in the world we live in today.I’m sure no one has seen hormones in milk either, but they’re there… Why do you think we’re seeing earlier puberty in our children  today, not to mention infertility.I’m not a dairy producer myself but i know enough to know that milk cows simply won’t produce if they’re stressed.  Dairy cows especially those of larger farms, are absolutely pampered, ie milking rooms at desireable temperature for cows, water beds for cows.  yes, just like humans sleep on…..  as for the drugs,  I don’t know… with our over diagnosed society, how do you feel about letting your baby have breast milk? any medicine is good for a little while but no one, people, cows or otherwise should be on prescribed drugs for any extended period of time.I can appreciate all the comments in support of milk, but my question to all is, what are you basing your information on.  I have a son that is anaphylactic to cows milk, he was born that way, which is highly unusual but is the fact.  He is 18 now and the only time he was exposed to cows milk was by accident, and was a nightmare of course.  However, physically he is in better shape than most others his age, I mean he has a 6 pack and he does not do sit ups,  His heart rate and respitory is that of an athlete’s, yet he is not.  He rarely gets sick.  I have 2 other sons that have been consuming cows milk all their life, and are healthy, but clearly the son that does not ingest cows milk is healthier. Because of my sons condition I have been forced to learn about cows milk and am convinced it is not good for you, and again my son is the proof… I would never impose my eating beliefs on anyone, just wanted to share the info. I have.  Enjoy!!Only a genetic mutation allows a so called “healthy” immune system to digest it. That is why milk dries up is because it is only meant to nourish babies of the same species.The FDA!!! What a joke!!! The dairy industry is huge and  worth a ton and you will weigh a ton if you keep eating like a cow 🙂total agree. that is why we are going to raise our own soon. until then I will stay away from dairy 95% of time and make that last 5% organic.and also What do other countries do that don’t believe the USA FDA’s money hungery people!that’s like saying burgers are only beef. however they are turkey, chickin and beans. burgers are any kind of round flat disk of meat and even beans are meatI give it to the moron with X-Ray vision who can see not only into a glass of milk but into a glass a milk on such a microscopic scale as to NOT see pus CELLS. I bet eyes like that have saved him/her lots of sleepes nights at Motel 6esque lodgings being to tell which beds had critters on them and all…I’ve just started milking our dairy cow, tried the milk straight from the bucket & loved it.  The way things are going now prices in the shop to buy milk are too steep!. Back in the day my parents drank milk straight from the cow & was delivered to their schools many years ago.
Everyone would benefit from milking cows, heaps cheaper, less cost effective.all this talk about cows and milk and differing opinions, but
no one mentions what the cow wants. did you ever consider that? I think if cows could talk they would definately say, “milk me”, because they like the attention. if they could have an opinion, they would definately choose to be milked and eaten rather than face extinction. They like the fact that people are caring for them, feeding, housing and touching them. why would they want to give that up for a cold hungry peopleless field?ask the cow. she would say, “milk me”
they like the attention and the touch
not to mention the free food and home
and hay.Did the cow tell you that?I think you misunderstood the cow.She really wanted to say that she wants to use her milk to feed her own child, her own calf, just like nature intended. She meant to say that she doesn’t want to be hooked up to a machine and have her child torn away from her from the first minute that it is born. What she meant to say was that she wants to be free. It’s okay … it took me years to speak cow. I accept your misconception.Well said!!!I’ve recently heard that in Japan cows can produce human milk. that is for sure dangerous to my mind, cause it’s against nature.I’m a dairy producer, and this whole article is… well, ridiculous. Milk cannot be shipped if the cow is on an antibiotic. It’s illegal and a bulk tank sample is taken when the milk truck arrives on farm. Scott is completely right about the cows production. If she is put in any amount of stress, even as little as a stll that is set too wide, it will negetivly affect her production. The whole “PUS” bit is insane…… its not pus, they are called somatic cells and they are simply the epithelial cells from inside the udder. They pose absolutely zero threat to your health and have NEVER been linked to Crohn’s disease. Cows are also not over milked, this will do damage to her udder and will affect her ability to produce, it would be like stepping on your own toes to do this to your animals. Only some peda worshipping idiot would ever be dumb enough to do something like that.
“From parasitic worms to cancerous tumors, these diseases are often passed along to the next generation of cows, and more often, into the milk we drink.”
Does the author honestly think cancer is hereditary? This line Proves the author has ZERO credability. Im sure anyone with even a slim amount of common sense can see that this is written by a fanatic, priding himself on pure champion stuff, and has no academic background. Doesn’t even sound like the tool has a grade 12 for that matter.
Learn to think critically when you read stuff on the web… honestly.I understand where you are and coming from and I understand where the author is coming from, he is just trying to help people and by hitting hard with figures is perhaps his way of making people see.I don’t think all farmers are alike, not like you anyway. Farmers are kind people, i know a few in the villages locally. However, that doesnt mean to say that they realise the final end product …. We are all in this world together and we all do things that cause harm without knowing.I have studied Clinical Nutrition for 4 years and have practiced for some time now, the biggest shock i realised first off  is how the food industry aren’t interested in health but making money. we are so far removed from what we should be eating and the media brain wash us into all sorts of foods….Take Gluten for example, its a protein which is not soluble in water. Many people are having difficulting digesting this, and i won’t bore you with the science but Gluten interferes with many body systems. It stops us manufacturing Serotonin (95% which is made in the gut) it interferes with insulin in the pancreas etc etc etc….So this Gluten goes into all sorts of foods to preserve and causes all sorts of isses from acute to then chronic illnessHeres the question – If the Goverment started to have a look at this from a science prespective and realised how much they’d save with hospital bills and general health we’d be in a better place! But no the right hand doesnt communicate with the left hand because the Goverment have their hands tied by you know who !!!!!….. And now you can see why its good for people to be sickWell said! 🙂I believe in the harmful effects of all the hormones given to cows.  One of my family members was having tret like symtoms and after taking away dairy products acts just fine.  This was with no medication just taking away dairy.This article is not based on real science. Please post links with actual scientific research to all your points. Advising people to drink raw milk is dangerous and irresponsible.So what if you drink some cows blood, its the juice in steakswonder who first sucked a cows teat?haha thats not normalNo, it’ s not blood:
i agree with Crysta.Why is it not normal to suck the teat of a cow. Only you’ve to be careful. You do not get kicked by the cow on your head and haver your head broken. You have to know how to suck the teat without chewing it with your teeth and injuring it. But if your cow has never kicked while you milked her and you know how to suck the teat there is no reason why you should not do it. It is a lot of fun. I’ve done it a lot of time. It is better to suck the teat of a goat since it woulf be safer.These days cows get milked by Robots. The milk found in the dairies would have some blood. Even if the cows are not milked by robots the suction cups would injure the teats.  I do not like to drink milk mixed with blood. But unless you have your own dairy animals there is no way you can get milk that is not mixed with blood. I work at a dairy some time and hand milk the cow for milk for  my own use. That way I’m sure the milk does not have blood from the teat.I’d drink raw milk only if I milked the goat or cow myself. That way I know that I washed the udder and washed the teats. I know that the teats were not injured and bleeding. I’d milk the cow by hands so that I know that only milk is coming through her teats. Raw milk is very delicious. Some times I wonder if the cows and goats are jealous of the humans who milk them wondering how does their milk taste. that is why a calf must never be allowed to suckle the teats of their mothers. That way they would never know what is it that humans are drawing from their teats.Human blood is full of hormones. Hormones that are given to the cows are not really harmful. Otherwise the Food and drug Administration would not allow it. Since I do not have my own cow at present I buy the milk and eggs. Organic products are very expensive. So I do not buy organic products. So I do consume milk contaminated with blood and hormones. I eat eggs that have hormones. I never get sick. So I do not believe people get sick having hormones. they are in low quantities.  I do not think one would drink so much milk and eat so many eggs that his stomach would get filled with hormones. If you drank so much milk your arteries would get clogged with cholestrol and you’d die from clogged arteries.Your comment is now three years old. If you still are accepting visitors to your farm I’d love to visit your farm and see you milk your cows and vouch for your farm. It would be a great pleasure because I believe in farmers. They indeed work hard. Yes it is hard ti get up at four in the morning. My mail address is at aol dt comWhere is the scientific proof of that rubbish you are pointing out?I cam across this blog from my usual everyday browsing in the net and this caught my eye. Being a big milk fan, I never realised this was what I have been drinking. I have a question though, is this the same with how powdered milk drinks are processed? Just curious.This article should be read by everybody. Whether the truth is seen by farmers, consumers, or animals, there is only one thing that matters: MILK IS UNHEALTHY, it causes diseases, it’s disgusting, and its unfair for the caws. Therefore dairy industry should not exist in the first place because it jeopardises people’s health and lives. This is why every consumer should read articles like this that display the truth.Yeah milk has calcium, but human bodies looses the enzyme to digest lactose when we are babies. (Just to clarify we have that enzyme to digest our moms milk which is so much lower n fat than cows’ milk). Since we don’t have that enzyme anymore our bodies fight milk every one we consume it, and we spend more calcium than what we got from the milk. Therefore when we drink milk we loose calcium. Wimps.Wow, caws. I never knew caws existed. THE MORE YOU KNOW.Cram it. Other cultures drink goats milk.Blood dries up to. Water evaporates. Guess we can’t drink anything.What’s with capitalizing robots? What, is it some Great Evil?We say “waaa” I guess we want water then.Finally, someone with sense!My Filipino grand aunt never missed drinking a glass of milk (since time immemorial)in the morning and before bedtime, usually together with a banana. She lived up to 96.. Cow’s milk (any kind and brand) is essential in our diet and mind you, not one in my close family (up to second cousin) is stricken with cancer…im thankful to milk for my active lifestyle..my coffee-drinker friends easily get tired when doing outdoor activity but not me..our family’s traditional breakfast is usually a fruit and instant oats (sometimes replaced with sticky rice cooked in coconut milk) with milk every single morning..my parents are now in their 80’s and in still in their prime health…have to say that this is one biggest pile of crap i have ever read on dairy farming. there is no ‘pus’ as you call it in milk, it is somatic white blood cells. And most farms that produce milk would have a somatic cell count of under 200,000,  nevermind 322 million! another thing is that if any antibiotics are found in milk then it is rejected for human consumption. it is illigeal to put milk into the food chain knowingly having put antibiotics in the milk. cows are not over milked mainly due to the fact that it is harmful to the cows udder, but also because of modern milking parlours that detect when she has finished milking. and saying that goats milk is healthier is fair enough, but being that most people (myself included) have a milking routine where the teat is dipped using an iodine based dip, then dried, and then before she leaves the parlour the teats and dipped again, whereas when milking goats the milking unit is put straight on, and the goat is then let out of the milking parlour when finished.Cow’s milk is for baby cows, not humans anymore than human breast milk is for a cow. The dairy industry will always tell you different, since millions if not billions of dollars are riding on it, but simple human intellect will tell anyone the obvious truth.I’m defending dairy farmers, and cows, because I do not believe the information in the above article is entirely credible.  I spent time every year on my Uncle’s dairy farm, one of the largest in their region of Wisconsin.  Although my uncle and aunt are retired now I remember the same rhetoric going around for many years and I know they never used excessive hormones or other chemicals, they milked every cow by hand that had a medical issue, and threw away the milk from ill or suspect individuals. The cows udders most often became inflamed or infected because the cows step on them, as the milking machines were very gentle and rhythmic and the cows enjoy them.  As for the stress of over-milking, it’s obvious the author knows nothing about the pain a breast-feeding mother goes through when she is separated from her baby for too long.  Cows experience this same pain, and will stand outside the fence in the pasture bellowing to be let into the barn to be milked if the gate isn’t open when they need to come in.  In human or pet terms this is called “begging”… because the cows both want and need to be relieved of their painful milk supply.  Most cows are satisfied with twice to three times a day but a heavy producer will establish extra milkings for herself by refusing to go out to pasture with the rest of the herd.   Chemicals were always the last resort even though they had many hundreds, and usually over a 1000 to 1500 animals per season.  They were never ‘caged’ unless there was an individual animal that presented a safety issue, but each cow knew which stall was hers, and would go to the same one for every milking, complaining very loudly until someone came to turn the intruder out if another cow became dissatisfied with her space, and decided to try steal a new spot from a neighbor down the aisle.  Cow barns don’t usually have cages. Although many stalls have a containment mechanism that loosely fits the cows neck like a collar, preventing it from backing up out of it’s space, most of the cows were not contained, and just stayed in their stalls voluntarily until the next time they were scheduled to leave the barn.   They always showed a clear sense of time, coming in from the field every day at the appointed hour, leaving after the milking machine was attached and later removed, and coming back in from the pasture and waiting by the gate for the next session.  No one went out to the fields and chased them into the barn like cowboys on a cattle drive…They weren’t forcibly milked…This article seems very ridiculous to me, as if the author has been exposed to excessive propaganda and is parroting it back without the real-world experience to know it’s not true.  It makes me question the site.I think the real problem is that cows are injected growth hormones as well as other drugs. There should be more investigation in this matter.cows milk is for her babies, not us. some of us have awoken..some of us havent..the milk industry and its gimmicks do work dont they?..for calcium and strong bones..calcium doesnt come from milk..did u know that.?..comes from rocks..the soil and plants absorb the calcium..Nutritious for a calf…humans aren’t the only species that need vitamins and minerals. Also to compare milk to wheat, that is not a logical comparison… this is a JOKE!!!!  look at the dr. he is a freakin hippie…  get your facts straight before you publish your opinioni would say I wasn’t in Asia and that’s why I am healthy. Sorry but what you are saying is illogical.And I can say don’t go to Asia because you will get sick!!So don’t drink it, I love milk and i will drink it all my life. I won’t fight it. I will enjoy itnow we can say you are a cowI have spent my entire life on the farm.  I drink raw milk, straight from our milk tank.  I can promise you there is no antibiotics in our milk, no penicillin or sulfa or anything else (I am allergic to penicillin).  There are strict rules on what you can give the cows, some gets in their milk, some does not.  Strict rules on beefing the cows also.  Our cows are not stressed, they are spoiled.  I am very offended by this article.  This guy is painting a horrible and dishonest view of life on the farm.  A glass of milk is a heck of a lot healthier for you than a can of pop any day of the week!  Bunch of hogwash!  Also: every load of milk is tested for many antibiotics before it is unloaded at the plant.  These test are very sensitive.  No milk with drugs is in the food system!You can’t even spell ‘cows’!  People carry diseases too, as well as all of our pets!  This article doesn’t display the truth that is the problem!  Our cows are family, they all have names and are well behaved.  We know each of the personalities.  Milk is healthy!  It is a healthy meal choice, lots of nutrients and calcium.  I live a healthy and active life, because of our farm.  I have never been unhealthy because of our cows.  It is a lifestyle and it is great.  You don’t have to understand it, but do not criticize when you do not have proper knowledge of the situation.Hi Cow Lover, Thanks for weighing in. Where is your dairy farm located? I don’t have any problems with raw, organic milk straight from the cow. It’s the milk from large scale production, non-organic, GMO-fed, mastitis-ridden cows I’m concerned about.
-Dr. Edward GroupIt seems that you may not know the meaning of ‘truth’ my friend… I would prefer it if such a word were not warped!What YOU’RE saying is illogical! As if it’s a certainty?! Pshaw!I think it’s a person’s or persons’s name(s), Robot(s)! They all demand to be called Robot!So how is the calf raised? Then we come full circle to the mature cow… That stuff’s messed up!You’re a relative rarity (at least in this part of the world) and that’s a true shame! It’s more about the CAFO’s (Concentrated Animal Feedlot Operations) than how it is on classic farms. You might want to read up on it, it’s a component of industrial farming. In fact I don’t know how you don’t know, I think it is VERY clear he only means the industrial style farms!no your wrongnothis was written by a veganbut cows are eveilyup its yummymilks prehistoric, find a replacementPingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()plz care cow as your familyPingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()What is the human limit for pus-intake? And what sort of experiments were conducted to establish that?Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()So don’t drink cows milk because humans weren’t made to drink animal milk, it’s only for this babies BUT a healthy alternative is goat’s milk? So is a goat not an animal? Smh, THIS asinine article!