 Most of us recognize that sugar does not promote good health. In fact, most people know that sugar is unhealthy, but not everyone understands the full extent of its unhealthiness. Refined sugar, such as , is nothing but empty calories and it’s highly addictive; artificial sweeteners like  are even worse. Sugar is added to many food products, and it’s almost impossible to escape.       There was a time when bread consisted of flour, yeast, salt, and water. Now, sugar and a number of other, questionable ingredients can be found in most types of bread. For example, we looked at a few of the most popular brands of white bread on the market. For most, just two slices account for almost 20% of your daily sodium allowance, have more calories than beer, almost no fiber, and about 6 grams of sugar in the form of high fructose corn syrup.The dangers of sugar have been known for decades. William Dufty described the sugar issue in his book , published in 1975.       William Dufty may have been ahead of his time; he understood that acidity leads to health complications.  Initially, sugar is stored in the liver. When the , excess sugar, known as , is returned to the blood as fatty acids. Fatty acids are stored in organs such as the heart and kidneys. Here the tissues degenerate and turn to fat, affecting the whole body.      There is also a strong correlation between sugar consumption and diabetes. Sugar-filled foods and soft drinks have led to a diabetes epidemic. In the U.S., almost 30 million people have diabetes, and 86 million adults over 20 have pre-diabetes. One in four diabetic Americans does not even know they have the disease. The sugar takeover is no accident. Serious marketing efforts and even more serious dollars are at work. There are actually many similarities between big tobacco and the sugar producers. Both have invested billions of dollars developing creative ways to convince consumers that their deadly products are actually healthy.     Rebranding sugar as “carbohydrates” was another clever way to influence consumers. While technically true, the phrasing creates an impression that sugars are like other carbohydrates, such as cereal grains. Today, sugar is still listed under “Total Carbohydrates” on the .      Refined sugar manufacturers often twist the word ‘natural’ to mislead the public. Saying that something is made from “natural ingredients” creates the perception of a healthy, plant-based product. In reality, “natural” has become a marketing buzzword. Consider this example: . It sounds like a nutritious, vegetarian breakfast made from healthy, natural ingredients. However, a popular fast food chain has this item on the menu, and it contains 31 grams of sugar—not too healthy.  Much like pouring sugar into the gas tank of a car will gum up the engine, sugar has a negative effect on digestion and nutrient absorption.    The bottom line? Refined sugar is one of the most toxic, least beneficial substances you can put into your body. If sugar, or its artificial substitutes, have a hold on your life, it’s time for a change. Sugar causes inflammation, which leads to all sorts of health issues. Sugar is bad for your teeth and slows digestion. Sugar even has an effect on your brain. Stop drinking the  and start drinking life-supporting water. Stop consuming pre-packaged snacks loaded with refined sugar or  and start consuming foods that don’t have a label. And, if you’re tired, weary, and need a boost, ! 
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.