        The French green lentil is an exquisite, marbled beauty. Upon closer inspection, individual lentils are shades of olive green and black with hints of fiery red. You might say they almost resemble tiny red-slider turtles. In this tangy lentil salad from , the lentils provide a hearty, protein-packed base. The slightly peppery and earthy taste of the French lentils compliments the roasted asparagus and potatoes. While the common variety will suffice, the lentille du Puy has a firmer texture that won’t get overly mushy in lentil salads like this one. French lentils are also a better source of key nutrients. They have 24% more potassium, 25% , 60% more fiber, and 20%  per serving than the common green lentil. French lentils even cook nearly twice as fast as other lentils.     You might have luck finding these elusive legumes in the bulk section at your local organic grocer. While you’re there, don’t forget to pick up  for the dressing. They add a lively, coarse texture to this rich lentil salad.Any variety of yellow potatoes will suffice, but I recommend organic Yukon Gold for their versatility. When choosing your asparagus, find a verdant bunch with firm spears and try to use your asparagus soon. If you’re going to store the asparagus for a few days (no more than seven), they should be placed upright in a glass in about an inch of water and covered with a plastic produce bag. Change the water daily or they’ll get slimy. Throughout history, mustard seeds have been prized as both a spice and therapeutic food. Since ancient times, they were used to remedy muscle and arthritic pain. Today, in Turkey, mustard seeds are still used to make a plaster thought to help alleviate rheumatism, chest congestion, back pain, and sore muscles.A surprisingly rich , just one tablespoon provides 21% of your recommended daily allowance. They are also a great source of omega-3s, iron, calcium, zinc, , magnesium, B3, and glucosinolates. Isothiocyanates are derived from glucosinolates and have been extensively investigated for their ability to promote good health. Additionally, isothiocyanates, and some glucosinolates, are believed to provide a level of defense against some carcinogens.    With a low , this nutritious lentil salad recipe is an ideal meal for promoting sustained energy. Store portions in lidded glass containers to enjoy for tomorrow’s lunch or as a filling snack. Bon appétit!    Have you tried this recipe? Do you have a different way to enjoy lentils? Leave a comment and share your thoughts!
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.