Selenium is a trace element and mineral that is essential for human life. It is critical to many of our basic physiological functions, including protecting cells from oxidative stress and helping the thyroid produce hormones. It is found in many  and some animal products.   To say that selenium is important is an understatement.  are actually linked to conditions such as , heart disease, and infertility. Let’s look at what selenium means to your health.   Selenium works as a powerful antioxidant in the body. Antioxidants are substances that  by neutralizing free radicals. Selenium protects against free radicals and oxidative stress. It’s an active immunomodulator and a more potent antioxidant than vitamins A, C, or E.  Selenium combines with other proteins to create  such as  and . These proteins act as antioxidants to support health at the cellular level.The thyroid is a gland in the throat that produces hormones. The hormones produced by the thyroid affect growth and metabolic processes. Compared to other tissue in the human body, the thyroid contains the most selenium per gram. Like iodine, selenium plays an important role in the synthesis of .There have been many studies on selenium and thyroid disease, often with mixed or contradictory results. One study linked low selenium levels to thyroid problems in the elderly. Unfortunately, in that instance, selenium supplementation did little to help. However, another study found that selenium supplementation during pregnancy reduced hypothyroidism and inflammation. Yet another study found selenium supplementation decreases the negative effects of .   More research is needed to draw conclusions, but the potential of  is encouraging.Free radical damage causes the cellular degeneration we know as aging. As a powerful antioxidant, selenium neutralizes the damaging effects of free radicals. One study revealed that selenium levels decline with age and low selenium contributes to cognitive decline in older adults. There is great interest in determining whether selenium supplementation can slow age-related mental impairment. Hopefully, we learn more soon.Metals are among the most toxic of pollutants. Effective ways to detoxify the body of  are few and far between. The good news? Data suggests that supplementing with organic (carbon-bound) selenium supports mercury excretion.  It’s clear that there is a relationship between selenium concentration and cardiovascular health. Some heart attack patients show low selenium levels and incidences of heart failure caused by  have been reported since as early as 1937. Not only is selenium itself important for cardiovascular support, it works with other nutrients such as vitamin E and beta-carotene to help promote normal cholesterol levels.  Selenium is critical for both male and female reproductive health. It enables sperm locomotion and a selenium deficiency can lead to male infertility. Studies have found that low selenium can also have a negative impact on female fertility and fetal growth. There seems to be a link between selenium deficiency and miscarriage, but more research is necessary to determine the exact mechanism.  Studies have observed a trend in which lower concentrations of selenium correlated with an increased risk of certain types of cancer. Although this is an interesting tidbit of information, it shouldn’t be interpreted as an implication that selenium is a treatment or method of prevention for cancer. While selenium has many benefits, there is not conclusive evidence to call it a viable treatment option.    We do know that selenium is an essential mineral that’s crucial to many bodily functions. Natural sources, like fruits and vegetables, are the best way to incorporate selenium into your diet.  may also be appropriate for people who are experiencing a selenium deficiency. If you’re concerned that you’re not getting enough selenium, talk to your nutritionist and see if selenium supplementation is right for you.
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.Helps to promote oxygen circularion.Very few selenium products increase GPx – you need a product with a broad spectrum of selenoproteins. GPx has shown great promise as far as cancer.
In terms of cardiovascular health – the 4-year KiSel-10 study on healthy seniors saw a 54% reduction in cardiovascular mortality from a combo of selenoprecise and pharmaceutical-grade myoqinon.