Few things are more annoying than the itching and scratching that accompanies a fat, juicy mosquito bite. When a mosquito bites us, we itch due to the residual saliva left behind from the insect’s feasting on our blood! Fortunately, just as Mother Nature has honored us with the presence of these buzzing nuisances, she has provided us with some natural home remedies for mosquito bites.Here are some of my favorite and most-effective natural ways for relieving and treating painful and itchy mosquito bites. I’ve been using these remedies for years, as the mosquitos can get really bad here in Texas. In fact, you may be surprised to find that most of these remedies are common things that you can easily find in your home.When you first notice the itchy bite, try applying a small amount of vinegar directly to the bump. If you have many bites, you may want to take a very hot bath in a tub filled with water and 2 1/2 cups of vinegar. I would personally recommend using . is another excellent remedy for mosquito bites, as well as many other conditions. Not only will it help ease the itching and swelling from the bit, but it will also aid in healing the wound. You can use  directly from an aloe plant or organic . They both work well at providing relief.Another remedy for mosquito bits is to rub a bar of dry soap directly on the bite. This will help provide temporary relief to the itching. Remember to wash it off throughly after the itch fades away.Another simple remedy for mosquito bites is to make a thick paste of baking soda and water. Then apply this paste generously to the affected area. You should feel the swelling and itching subside shortly afterwards.Other than making you produce tears, a fresh slice of onion can also help take the sting out of a bite. Simply place a fresh slice on the affected area for several minutes until the itching subsides. Be sure to wash the area thoroughly afterwards.For quick relief from mosquito bites, try applying a small amount of all-natural peppermint or neem-based toothpaste. Allow the paste to dry and leave for as long as desired.Simply, take a small amount of honey and apply directly to the bite. Honey also has anti-microbial properties that can help prevent infection. I would personally recommend using .I usually apply a small amount of lime juice directly to the bites. Lemon juice also works well. I have also heard that rubbing the bite with the lemon or lime peel helps, but I usually prefer to use the juice. This also helps in keeping the wound from becoming infected from the grit and grime of fingernails.There are  that can help provide temporary relief for mosquito bites. My favorites are tea tree, rosemary, neem, lavender, witch hazel and cedar oil. Take a small amount and dilute it with water, then apply directly to the bite.Take finely ground salt and mix with a small amount of water until you have a thick paste. Apply this salt paste directly to bite. I personally use  and find it works best, but iodized salt will also work. The important thing is to make sure it’s finely ground.Try rubbing a piece of  on the wound. It is possible that you will feel a small amount of mild burning, but you should feel some major relief afterwards. This is not one that I use with my children, and is wise for to use caution when using this natural remedy. The smell of garlic (and neem) will also help repel the mosquitoes from biting you more later.Ozonated olive oil is a natural health remedy in which olive oil is slowly infused with oxygen over a period of 3-6 months. This process changes the oil to an off-white topical cream that can soothe a variety of conditions. It speeds healing and alleviates swelling and redness from insect bites.  Simply apply the cream directly to the bite, and the itching and swelling should stop within minutes. If you’re interested in ozonated olive oil, try , Global Healing Center’s own ozonated olive oil formula. O2-Zap is 100% organic, non-toxic, and environmentally friendly. Do you have any mosquito bites natural remedies? If so, I’d love to hear about them in the comments below.
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.Nice list of tips! I live in Texas and the mosquitos are starting to come out in force. I’ll have to use some of these natural remedies to help treat the bites. Thanks!Another great remedy that my grandma passed on to me is oatmeal. Believe or not, oatmeal is the greatest itch reliever there is. All you do is make a paste out of oatmeal and water and apply it to anywhere it itches.  My 6 y/o daughter asks for oatmeal every time she has a mosquito bite. It works every time!!!!Immediately after the bite, the best remedy I found is to take a piece of paper towel and get it wet with cold water – not dripping.  Place it in the microwave for about 10 seconds.  Press it onto the bite three times for the count of one one thousand, two one thousand three one thousand.  The wet paper towel can get hot depending on your microwave, so be careful.The remedies are great, but how about some natural sure fire mosquito repellants?  I don’t know about you, but I would rather NOT get the bites in the first place.  Looking forward to a future article.While not totally natural, a drop of colloidal silver on the bite ends the problem for us.Clear nail polish works great. It forms a sort of “scab”. It also works for chiggers and other itches.My best remedy is to mix in a spray bottle about a cup of water and a about 10 drops of lavender oil ( essential oil) and also pepermint oil , around 5 drops.  I also add some alcohol .  I made my mix and as soon as I sprayed that on all the bare skin no more bites!.  I love it because it also helps if you already have any bites.  And believe me , I was not able to go outside before.good tips. Mosquito bites are never fun to deal with. I also live in Texas, and they can get really bad.Another great remedy that was passed on within my family is to put water on the bite spot and then sprinkle some salt onto the water. This will stop the itching instantly and the bite will disappear within 20-35 minutes.Hi mb! Thanks for the excellent mosquito bite remedy! I will keep this in mind when the mosquito season starts here in Texas! ~Dr. GI just wish more people paid attention to such natural remedies insted of using more and more chemicals.Mosquito repellent- build smokey fire and stand in the smoke for several minutes.  If you camp all day, you will probably eat three meals, so smoke yourself over the fire when you eat,you will be good all day.Aloe does work well for bites and skin irritations in general. It’s very soothing and speeds up the healing process- it’s great to have around, especially in the summer. Thanks for the great info…summer is here and I hate mosquitos
i know tooth paste is good for developing pimple. Just a small dab will do it. In the morning it will be ready to drain.
thanks for looking..my 6 months old daughter was crying of mosquito bite, i applied Aleo vera juice from the plant after reading this article, it worked great. thanks for sharing the info,Another thing that works is saliva it might not work immediatly but it’s effective if you don’t have anything elseYogurt…. Trust me.I get a ton of mosquito bites here in Northern MN. No matter what repellent I use. Aloe is great when you can get it – up here its not common. I usually wash at night in the summer with a tea tree oil based natural soap. Bar or liquid, doesn’t matter. The tea tree oil stops the itching for me, and if you have any cuts or scrapes from the day it also keeps those disinfected. For fast relief I either do garlic or a baking soda paste. Works wonders.what always helps for me is to first make an ‘x’ on your bite with a toothpick or nail. The take vegetable oil and dab it on to the bite. not only does this stop the itch…but I find that it helps the bite go awayThank you! I just made a white  and garlic powder paste and my 30 mosquito bytes still red, inflamed  and itchy from two days ago stopped itching within five minutes -almost immediately after the paste dried on my skin.  Inflammation also gone! That was supposed to say, ”white vinegar” and garlic powder pasteChapstick!!!!  The medicated works best  but really any will work. It will also work on cuts and burns (curling irons etc).  I always carry a tube. You gotta try it.  Easier and something that really works every time. I tried both the vinegar and baking soda and NEITHER worked. I still have a lot of inflammation, redness and itchiness. It’s been almost 24 hours and I haven’t scratched them once. When I get mosquito bites they are disgusting, large, swelling bumps unless I treat them right away. Toothpaste has always been a big one for me. I apply it on and around the bit to reduce the swelling and halt the itching. I also try to apply some as soon as I am bitten, to keep it from swelling at all. It’s super effective and relieving. My family never believed that it worked but this has proven my theory.BANANA PEELS is also a big one to reduce itching. Rub the inside of the peel on the wound to keep from scratching.I’ve put chapstick on burns and bites. Very soothing.Admitedly, I’ve tried this desparately seeking relief while out of my home.Sugar and water 🙂rubbing the insides of banana peels stops the itching.
letting ice melt over the bit is also relieving, temporarily.Yeah, uh, I’m 11 years old and I found this useful. My left arm has like 8 bites and with a bit of everything, it was pretty soothing. Plus, the star rating thing is weird.spray hair spray on ur finger and then grently rub it on the mozzie bite 100% garented dat it will we0orkThe most effective remedy is probably turmeric powder mixed with a bit of water. It immediately reduces inflammation and itchiness. BEWARE-it stainsWhat exactly is neem?hi i have really bad reddened misquito bites and i have like milky pale freckled skin, but im a basic sugar candy walking around for these misquitos (srry lil humor there but its true ^-^;) since im also O negative blood type. i have milk and honey chapstick and was wondering if that could heal and get rid of the misquito bites. im very self conscious about them right now and all i have on me to use is witch hazel, generic benadryl cream, hydrocortizone cream, bottled aloe vera gel (dont know about the 100 proof though its just plain aloe vera gel i also have one that is blue colored and has lidocaine in it the other one is green just being plain aloe vera gel i guess), vicks vapor rub, kosher salt, and honey. if someone can tell me how many time to put either of these items on my bites so they can go away i would appreciate that very much. thank you. i also have that nivea milk and honey chapstick, would that work to heal and clear up the bites and the scars as well?What I always do is put hot water on my bite till it tingles.
I also like smashing up plantain leaves (which you can find everywhere!) and apply it to your bite.Try spam. It does wonders!when none of these things are available at hand, just spit on the spot and rub it. you will get immediate relief. This works for most of the itches.Garlic, onion, vinegar?  YIkes … no company around  for hours!!! But whatever works to relieve the ITCHING …regarding the aloe vera, I have tested it personally against asian tiger mosquito bites, and it was very effective. In 30 minutes the swelling was almost gone. Regarding the garlic, it does not keep only mosquitos away but everybody.What about when it forms a huge bubble? Then what should I do (for my daughter)?Have you tried the remedies above?I have many mosquito bites all over me but none are itching. But I have been REALLY itchy in other places where i have thouroughly checked and there is no sign of a mosquito bite. Should I use some of the remedies on these itches?No sign of a bite or any irritation at all but your skin is just itchy?I’m in Arizona and am like you. They LOVE me and my bites swell to 1/2″ diameter or larger. I cover myself if I go out to sit around at night with Avon Skin So Soft. It works. Last night I didn’t and got 3 bites. I had read about either heat or ice, so tried both. Dip a spoon in hot, almost boiling water and tap it on the bite until you can hold it there. I followed it with ice, applied directly. Wow, NO swelling ! and the itch was gone shortly after. Just be careful not to burn yourself. I was amazed.Believe it or not, natural remedies also contain chemicals. In fact, just about anything that is matter is made of chemicals to some degree. I wish you just learned some science and understood why those natural remedies work. Toxins from the mosquitos saliva are usually proteins, which can be denatured with heat, pH changes, or salination changes. This is why most of the remedies work. Vinegar or Lemon juice are relatively acidic and hence denatures the toxin proteins. Baking Soda is basic and also deantures toxin proteins.Most of the treatments that you can pick up non-prescription are made using the same principles, although due to dilution, method variations etc. their effectiveness varies as well. The most useful mosquito bite treatment I’ve used was a lotion in china, which was essentially a form of acid mixed in with salinated water. You could use a combination of lime juice and salt and it would work the same way, but usually the “chemical” remedies have gone through clinical testing to make sure that the treatment won’t hurt you, compared to random ideas posted by random strangers, such as piercing a starburst/cross across the swelling (that’s just begging for infection). TL;DR Learn some science and you would understand that rather than going OMG chemicals, you should actually read the labels and understand (roughly) what the chemicals mean and do to you.Aloe vera gel stops the itch of mosquito bites, but it has the added benefits of moisturizing the skin & repelling mosquitos. Rub it generously all over your arms, neck, face, legs and you won’t get any more bites. It soaks right in and makes your skin feel great. Sure worked on my kids when they were little.Great tip, thanks!Pingback: ()That’s very lame and not true. I wonder what moron gave you a up vote- probably yourself. Same goes for your sockpuppet michelle telfoNo- what you’re looking for is treatment for crabs or bedbugs.BANANA PEEL! Rub a piece of banana peel over the bite for 1-2 minutes. Gets ride of itching and swelling in less than 5 minutes. Hope this helped! These are great! The only thing that caught my eye as off was the essential oil, as it is oil it can’t be diluted in water. Myself, I’d recommend blending it with another antbactiral oil, like coconut!Thank you so much. I will use these natural remedies next time a nasty mosquito bite me. Can I use these for other insect bites too. Do Fruit Flies bite human beings? I just use a bit of water to wet the area, and put on some salt. When it dries, the bite doesn’t itch anymore. There’s a lot of mosquitos here in Taiwan, especially in summer.I have an infected mosquito bite on my leg, and it is filled with pus. When I squeeze out the pus, it fills with pus again in a few hours. It doesn’t itch anymore, but there are little yellow bubbles on it. What do I do?Pingback: ()Hi I have inherited my mother’s capability of growing tolerant to medicinal stuff, and mosquitoes love me here in CO, so I’ve tried: Salt paste, Honey, Aloe, Hydrocortizone creams, Benadryl Creams and gels, Solarcaine. I keep a number of these on hand as if i switch off every now and then they’ll work later, but lately they no longer work for me, and most repellants wont keep the pesky bugs off of me. Now I Don’t have: Limes, Lemons, Garlic, Onions, Essential Oils, or toothpaste but i plan on doing the baking soda one here in a minute. Can anyone give me any ideas or tipsHoney works well for us… I apply a drop of honey to a bandaid and put it over the bite… Leave on for a little while and it helps relieve the itch… ??I just tried that hope it works i got 1 bite on each cheek on in about EXACTLY THE SAME SPOT i want it to go away soooo bad??Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()apply some neem paste on the bumps it aid u from mosquito bite’s after effectsAnnoyed Science Student – Yes, most drugs prescribed by doctors do hail from natural sources, when you trace back their components. There is nothing in them that wasn’t culled from Nature in one way or another. Even plastic’s components come from Nature… Nature (God, if you prefer) made everything. All the raw materials. But Man (read: scientists) alters these raw materials by the natural components and reacting them in various ways in such a manner that the combined end product rarely has any resemblance to anything remotely “natural” by the time the whole sequencing of combinations and interactions is all said and done. Being a science student, I’m sure you are aware of all this. Which means that you are being less than ingenuous with your remonstration and annoyance.Another piece of the puzzle you may or may not choose to be aware of is that those impressive-sounding “clinical testings” you so fondly bring up are, in fact, funded by massive drug/chemical companies who want to see certain results, supporting the drugs they want to launch. How much work do you think would be garnered by a clinical trials company that consistently gives these massive drug companies unfavorable results in testing their drugs? Of course, they put on a good show and do years of “development” and “testing” and “clinical trials”. But, in the end, just how reliable can those tests be, given the whole picture?These same drug/chemical companies also fund the schools and universities that you “Science students” and medical students, pharmacists and other ‘healthcare professionals” go to. In effect, they get to dictate the curriculum and what gets introduced into your belief systems. And they do. Further, they have multi-million (more likely multi-billion) dollar advertising accounts with all types of media. Which means that they can tell them how to spin their products in their “news” stories. And they do. They also fund politicians’ campaigns heavily and so carry a lot of clout in government. You could say they have the government in their back pockets and can dictate policy. And they do. Just take a closer look at how many former Monsanto and Bayer, Dow, Dupont executives are now sitting and/or have sat in top seats in government. Do you think they are there because they decided to reform and work for humanity?So please spare us the references to the all-mighty “professionals” and “clinical trials”. Those seriously compromised segments of society are mostly just plain scary.Having said all that, I do wish you well in your studies. Perhaps you will be a morally upright scientist in the end. But then, you will also probably be unemployed.A few drops of lavender oil, a few drops of peppermint oil, incorporated into some coconut oil. Works perfectly!Pingback: ()Hey I just used the lemon juice remedy on my bite and it the bulb went down and the itchiness settled:)Another thing is if you/your wife are breastfeeding, breastmilk! It helps with itchiness & reduces the swelling.Pingback: ()Chickpea flour is one of the best ways to treat ant bites. It is enriched with essential minerals like phosphorus, manganese, and iron.essential oil works best for me, tried vinegar, backing soda, but no usePingback: ()Pingback: ()They’re not supposed to get rid of them, just stop the itching. You’ll have to wait a period of time until they go forever.Wow…nice. Gonna try it.Really…amazing.Yogurt( eyes wide opened)Oh koolWell give your company dome unless the mosquitoes don’t love them WS much as you. When mosquitoes bite me I don’t care who. I will do anything just to make it stop.The toothpaste definitely does NOT work! 🙁scotch tapeI have many mosquito bites and i swell up everytime. My pinky finger is swollen cuz one bit me there. Hopefully someof these will help me My mom always put rubbing alcohol in her hand and gently scratched it onto my mosquito bites when I was a kid. I believe you should do this as quickly as possible after getting bit. If you wait to long it may not work. I have used this same method on myself and my kid’s. Within a short time, the itching stops and you will not have the bump at all by the next morning. It works very well.Rubbing alcohol works amazing. Gently rub it onto the bite as soon as possible. The itching stops within a few minutes and will eliminate the bumps as well. My mom used this on my as a child & I have always used this method on my children. It works very well.Pingback: ()Peanut butter and a little jelly. It doesn’t work, but tastes good when you lick it off.Here’s what helps me… rubbing ICE on the bite until it feels cold and numb! pat dry it and put Cortizone on. i find this gives me relief for a little bit longer.I swear by rubbing ice on it for a couple seconds, the itching can go away just by doing that. Then I’ll smother it in toothpaste and just keep it on for the rest of the day. I’m not sure how to completely get rid of one though.I would use Ice Packs so then it would smoothe the mosquito bump and wait 30-45 mins then get Toothpaste and rub a bit on it. Next day… POOF it’s gone. I recommend this to you if it doesn’t take away the bump in a day it would take at least 2 to 3 days so this is a good strategy but you would need to leave out the area of the bump when taking shower and when you go to sleep you would have to leave the leg with the bump out to let it get air while you sleep.i used peroxide and it worked right away try that and also witch hazel someone told me afterbite get at walmart, but so far so good with the peroxide I guess it gets the saliva out from the mosquitoes which cause the itch hope this help you I have over 20 bites and was miserable so I tried the peroxide and thank God it does work clean with soap and water get a cotton ball and put peroixe heavily on it.me too in Florida i used peroxide and it worked right away try that and also witch hazel
someone told me afterbite get at Walmart, my doctor also says use oatmeal bath, but so far so good with the
peroxide I guess it gets the saliva out from the mosquitoes which causes
the itch hope this help you I have over 20 bites and was miserable so I
tried the peroxide and thank God it does work clean with soap and water
get a cotton ball and put peroxide heavily on iti used peroxide and it worked right away try that and also witch hazel
someone told me afterbite get at walmart, but so far so good with the
peroxide I guess it gets the saliva out from the mosquitoes which cause
the itch hope this help you I have over 20 bites and was miserable so I
tried the peroxide and thank God it does work clean with soap and water
get a cotton ball and put peroxide heavily on itPingback: ()