 If you’re a regular reader of this blog or , you probably know that I’m a big believer of eating healthy and following a .On a daily basis, I personally eat as many raw seeds, nuts, fruits and veggies as I can, all uncooked and unprocessed. I eat about 95% raw but still have organic veggie soup or some cooked veggies or beans from time to time. I have also experimented with a raw fruitarian diet where I only ate fruit for a couple of months. I must say, that was pretty hard.When food is “prepared” below 116°F, it is considered “raw,” because once your food hits this temperature range, it starts to lose its essential nutrients and enzymes that your body needs. Raw foods are considered “live” food which means extra energy and a healthier life for you. Over the last few years, I’ve read many websites and articles about raw foods and the benefits/dangers associated with this diet. Over this time, I have also discovered many great resources to help you with this lifestyle change. In my opinion, there is no better resource for raw foods and following a “raw lifestyle” than . I can’t tell you how much time I have spent surfing around on this site. Not only are Matt and Angela Monarch the leaders in following a raw food lifestyle, but they also provide you with exercise equipment, books and videos, herbal supplements and many other accessories you need to live a happy and healthy life.One of my favorite aspects of RawFoodWorld.com is their radio and TV shows. They bring you the latest info and interviews with their favorite raw food advocates. If you miss the live interviews, you can always download the mp3 and listen to it at your leisure, which is what I do most of the time.Another interesting aspect of RawFoodWorld.com is the story of . She’s a co-owner of the site, as well as regular blogger/owner of RawReform.com. Since 2001, she has lost over 160lbs because of her raw lifestyle. You can read more about her incredible weight loss journey on her site, as well as order some of her e-books I would highly recommend implementing more raw foods into your daily diet. It doesn’t have to be an immediate change. In fact, it’s probably best to slowly eat more and more raw foods. For more help on following a raw lifestyle, you should definitely go check out everything that RawFoodWorld.com can offer you.
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.Thanks for sharing the encouraging info. I went to the Raw Food World radio shows and listened to David Wolfe for the first time. He thinks that even calcium orotate contributes to calcification. I guess different people will be persuaded by different information. I just wish there were enough time and money to present indisputable science.Ha! how ironic. Two of my favorite sites that I visit on a weekly basis is this one, and Raw Food World. I’m a big fan of the Video blog there, which i guess is called the “TV show.” Glad to see that I’m not the only one that is a fan of the site. Cheers!Hi Janet,Thanks for the response! Actually calcium orotate reduces calcium plaque in the body and is the only form of calcium which enters the nucleus of the cell. I should tell David to read Dr. Neipers book “The Curious Man”. In his book he explains the mechanism and benefits of calcium orotate.Here is a complete rundown of the .Take care, Dr. GHi Dr. G, Just wanted to thank you for your continued advancement and work in this field, it is such a contribution to society! God bless.Sincerely,
Jessica Sentman