    Shocking new research published earlier this year in the Journal of the American Dietetic Association reveals that consuming only the foods most heavily advertised on television makes for an unhealthy diet.All jokes aside, the details that the research provides about just how unhealthy a theoretical “all-TV” diet such as this would be, is still an interesting reminder that we all need to be mindful about what we put into our bodies.Over a 28-day span, nearly 100 hours of television where analyzed. The 84-hour bulk of which was primetime. An additional 12 hours of Saturday morning television was also reviewed so as to include a better sampling of child-targeted food advertisements.The investigators calculated the nutritional value of diets comprised entirely of foods that where directly advertised as for sale on TV. Any foods that may have been used as props – such as the food on a restaurant table in a romantic commercial for a jewelry store – where ignored.On the surface, they found that the foods being pushed were disproportionately high in sugars, fats and meat. They were found to be equally lacking in fruits, vegetables and dairy products. Further investigation revealed a similarly lopsided distribution of essential vitamins and minerals.The foods featured in the commercials sampled were laden with protein, sodium, niacin and cholesterol among other things. They were lacking in beneficial nutrients including iron, , , , , , and , A and E.Over the past few decades, obesity, heart disease, and other health concerns are directly related to making unbalanced dietary choices. This adds up to millions and millions of dollars wasted on both low-quality foods and avoidable medical treatment.After careful analysis, the researchers behind the investigation conclude that a “3-pronged” approach to combating poor diet’s among consumers would be the ideal solution. First, they suggest the use of warning labels, similar to those found on alcohol and cigarettes, for foods that have an excessively unbalanced nutritional value. At the very least, adding warning labels to those foods which contain more than a full day’s supply of sugar or fat.Second, they recommend launching public education campaigns designed to not only encourage healthier eating habits, but also to make consumers aware of the marketing tactics which are used to lure them into making poor dietary choices.Third, they suggest that the public be directly involved with the establishment of a set of new dietary nutrition guidelines that more accurately reflect the needs and wants of modern, health-conscious consumers. In the meantime, most experts agree that small everyday changes such as habitually reading food labeling and pre-planning meals in advance are small, easy steps that can lead to a dramatic reduction in empty calorie intake and greatly improve overall health.You can learn more about the unhealthy compounds in foods, as well as how to incorporate organic diet techniques into your routine in my latest book .
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.It is true that consumers are tend to shop for products pushed or advertised in TV. And agreeably, it is difficult to pull-out unhealthy TV plugs. However, the government should launch a campaign or tour especially in schools to educate the public. Why not launch a TV plug promoting healthy foods and lifestyle?I think by now the average person is educated enough about all this. The problem is that this slop and poison is addictive. The amount of sugar in a can of soda is criminal and should not be allowed to be sold to children. Same for some cereals. It’s poison not food and should not be sold to children.I see the kids at my daughters school and most are obese and can’t even run around the block or ride a bike. Most don’t know how to swim. It’s criminal.