There are many reasons why it’s important to get an adequate amount of folic acid. Perhaps most importantly are cellular growth and regeneration. A 2010 article from the New York Times identified folic acid as one of the most, underappreciated , and multiple studies suggest a link between a lack of folic acid and mental conditions such as depression.Also known as vitamin B9, folic acid helps the body perform many essential functions, including nucleotide biosynthesis in cells, DNA synthesis and repair, red blood cell creation, and prevention of anemia. Folic acid also encourages normal fetal development. In fact, folic acid, calcium, and  have long been considered the holy trinity of prenatal wellness. A deficiency of the vitamin in pregnant women can have significant negative effects on unborn children’s brain development.Fortunately, many foods are naturally rich sources of folic acid. A well-planned diet should easily keep your system well-supplied with the vitamin.While folic acid and folate may be marketed interchangeably, their metabolic effects can be quite different. Folate is the bioavailable, natural form of vitamin B9 found in a variety of plant and animal foods. Folic acid, while readily utilized by the body, is the synthetic form of the vitamin; it’s primarily found in supplements and fortified foods. The body is more adept at using folate and regulates healthy levels by discarding excess folate in urine.It should come as no surprise that one of the planet’s healthiest foods is also one of the highest in folate. Adding more spinach, collard greens, kale, turnip greens and romaine lettuce into your daily diet provides an immediate boost in folic acid. Just one large plate of these delicious leafy greens will fulfill nearly all of your daily folate needs.Out of the entire vegetable kingdom, asparagus is one of the most nutrient dense foods with folic acid. Eating just one cup of boiled asparagus provides 262 mcg of folic acid, which provides approximately 65% of your daily needs. Not only is asparagus delicious, but it’s also full of nutrients your body craves, including vitamin K, vitamin C, vitamin A, and manganese.Broccoli is one of the  you can eat, and it’s a great source of folic acid. Just one cup of broccoli provides approximately 26% of your daily folic acid needs, not to mention a whole host of other important nutrients. I recommend enjoying organic broccoli raw or lightly steamed.Many fruits contain folic acid, and citrus fruits rank the highest. Oranges are an especially rich source of folic acid. One orange holds about 50 mcg, and a large glass of fresh-squeezed juice may contain even more. Other folate-rich fruits include papaya, grapefruit, grapes, banana, cantaloupe and strawberries. Here is a short list of fruits high in folic acid.Beans and peas that are especially high in folic acid include pinto beans, lima beans, green peas, black-eyed peas and kidney beans. A small bowl of any type of lentils provides most of your daily folate needs. Here is a short list of beans with the most folic acid.The avocado, also known as the butter pear, holds up to 110 mcg of folate per cup, which accounts for approximately 28% of your daily needs. Not only are avocados one of the best foods with folic acid, but they’re an excellent source of fatty acids, vitamin K, and dietary fiber. Adding them to sandwiches or salads makes for an extra-healthy treat.The world’s most slimy vegetable is also one of the most nutrient rich. Okra has the distinct ability to simultaneously offer vitamins and minerals while cleansing the entire  of toxic build-up. When it comes to folate, okra is a great source. Just a half cup of cooked okra will give you approximately 103 mcg of folic acid.There is no denying that Brussels sprouts are one of the best foods for folic acid. Eating one cup of boiled brussels sprouts will provide approximately 25% of your daily recommended amount. Brussels sprouts are also high in vitamin C, vitamin K, vitamin A, manganese, and potassium.It doesn’t matter if it’s pumpkin, sesame, sunflower, or , eating them raw, sprouted, or sprinkled onto a salad adds a healthy serving of folic acid. Sunflower seeds and flax seeds are especially high in folate; one cup offers up to 300 mcg. Nuts are also high in folic acid, especially peanuts and almonds. Below is a short list of the best seeds and nuts for folic acid.This cruciferous vegetable is typically regarded as one of the best , but it’s also a great source of folic acid. Just one cup of cauliflower will give you approximately 55 mcg of folate, accounting for 14% of your recommended daily value. I recommend adding fresh cauliflower to a salad., and they also provide detox support, making them one of the  on the planet. While that’s a great reason to add them to your diet, beets are also known as one of the best sources of folic acid. Eating one cup of beets will provide you with approximately 148 mcg of folate, accounting for 34% of your daily needs.Corn is a fun and popular vegetable that contains plenty of folate. Just one cup of cooked corn will provide you with approximately 34 mcg of folic acid, accounting for almost 9% of your daily needs. I recommend avoiding canned veggies and opting for fresh and organic.Celery is commonly regarded as a great food to help with kidney stones, but did you know it’s also a great source for folic acid? Just one cup of raw celery provides about 36 mcg of folate, accounting for about 9% of your daily needs.Carrots are another extremely popular vegetable you probably have in your home right now. Just one cup of raw carrots will give you almost 5% of your daily recommended needs for folic acid. Eat baby carrots as a snack or add them to your salads for a folate boost!The nutritional benefits of squash are as vibrant as the vegetable’s brilliant colors. And, if you make it right, it’s delicious. Whether it’s summer squash or winter squash, adding squash to your diet will give you a folic acid boost. Here is a breakdown of how much folate is found in squash.These are just a few of the foods with folic acid, are you aware of others? Tell me your thoughts in the comments below.Many foods contain folate, but if you still find yourself falling short of ideal intake, then supplementation may be a smart step for you. Folate (or folic acid) is available in multi-vitamins. I recommend , an all-in-one liquid vitamin supplement. IntraMax contains over 415 essential vitamins and minerals, including 200% of your daily recommended intake of folate.
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.That was really helpful, thank you! I am working on nutrition right now and that information really made me want to look more into Folic AcidGreat list – I have started taking 5MTFH, the form of folic acid used by the body and it has really helped with my depression.I really like your post. It shows which foods have folic acid in a visual way that also includes the percentages. It’s good to know that beans have so much folic acid. I like beans better than meat.Yes you can! I used to juice, but it was so expensive and messy.  When a started researching I also found that I was not getting a lot of the nutrition from the peels.  I found an easier, cheaper way and have never looked back to my juicing ways:)Really, where do I find out more info???Beef liver has by far the most folic acid, also b12, also vitamin A, plus Pro 72.1%, Fat 17.75%, Iron 107.2%, Phos 112.02%, Vit A 1228.29%
Vit C 43.47%, Thia 30%, Ribo 541.54%, Nia 153.5%, Chol 273.29%, how anyone could eat all those grains is beyond belief, and no B12, no saturated fat like butter, lard, beef tallow, coconut oil, and palm oil for energy.  Vegetarians and Vegans, can’t get B12 from their food, they can’t get any kind of energy that makes sense except in the form of glucose and they don’t develop four stomach like organs to handle all the stuff. For a time, both feel pure and healthy, and then the lack of libido, the lack of energy lest they stuff themselves full of carbs, and carbs are about the worst way to get energy or much else, they might do all right, but eventually…. Anyway, it’s your party, but I tried it and it drove me crazy, of course when you’re part Irish and Indian the idea of vegetables and no meat makes one want to throw up anyway. Give me good saturated fat for energy, cholesterol rich foods for sanity, tell the statin drug bunch to get lost, they are insane, it’s all about money, and oh yes, at least 80 grams of rare or raw meat a day, and some organic veggies and very little fruit and only in season. make sure the meat is from pastured animals and the fish from wild sources, and you will have a way to be happy, healthy and very, very bright and at times arrogant and a bit too animal for some person’s taste. However, we are animals and if we didn’t eat animal fat 250,000 years ago to about 1900 we wouldn’t be here today, we simply couldn’t have survived. What the Veggie bunch think is they will save the planet by letting animals alone. We made it on flesh, fat, and it was always feast or famine. Try living in the Klondike like Eskimos on a veggie diet, dead, dead, dead, very soon.Thanks for this list – I take folic acid supplements for depression and would much rather get my folic acid from food sourcesamen. if only more people could work this out for themselves.Helpful advice thank-you! I will probably end up using a combination of a supplement with the legumes mentionedLove your list of folic acid rich foods.  Being a big fan of juicing, I can use most of those in either juices or smoothies.In Canada and the US (and Costa Rico I beleive) folic acid deficiency is rare unless you suffer from some medical condition that requires more (or you are an alcoholic).  That’s because of government initiatives to fortify of cereals with folic acid to prevent birth defects (like cleft palate or spina bifida).I prefer natural fruits/foods to cann foods. this list have boost  me to continue with natural foods.But, which countries has plenty of each ot those fruits listed?I am not sure if you are up-to-date or not but the recent studies have shown that your gut bacteria actually produces B12, so in other word when vegan or vegetarian eat fermented food or raw vegetables they introduce pro-biotic into their guts and thus B12. You wasted your time A.) either typing or B.) copy and pasting. Also if you look at vegans or vegetarians they are not addicted to food, they eat whats needed and their energy levels are stable throughout the day only those that do not know how to plan their meals have problemsGrrrrrr. Its FOLATE your body needs NOT FOLIC ACID.Thanks to my parents, I grew up on just about all of these fruits and vegetables containing folic acid. I will continue to eat them and find recipes to make them delicious! When you cook vegetables asian style everything comes out great! I am Cambodian and my dad had always told me a lot of our foods contain lots of vitamins.My wife has had an extreme folic acid deficiency that started in 4 years ago.
This deficiency has been conclusively linked to GM carrots that hit our market around 5 years ago (these are the straight carrots).
2 weeks ago week she collapsed with extreme low white cells and platelets, bone marrow issues, and spleen problems.
Ironically, this has also resulted in her Vit A and carotene being depleted.
Her red blood cells have macrosites (red blood cells that get to be bigger).
Her hair has also being falling out.
Her thyroid function is very low
Her hemoglobin was also higher than safe bounds.Since avoiding carrots and taking folic acid supplements these systems have subsidedUh, you do know they are the same thing, right?Folic Acid is the manmade version, and Folate is what you get from food.Do your reading before you mislead others:
I just had a baby in March and it is funny but last summer when I got pregnant I was craving these foods! I couldn’t get enough Okra, red beets, oranges, avacado and garbanzo beans especially! Folic acid is absolutely essential for preventing neural tube defects. It is amazing that our bodies know what we need and if we listen to our bodies we will be eating the right things.you just confused me more than i want to be.I am now pregnant, and its only 2mnths now and I have high blood pressure its now 150/90 hoping folic acid foods will help me, pliz guys advice me on ma email  .
This is my secound pregnancy I lost my baby when I was 8mnths pregnant bse of HBP they had to save ma life and kill the baby bse my pressure was soo high and ended having still birth. Hope to get ma baby this tyme.
Xoxo joannethanks this is so helpful 🙂Have your wife’s White Blood Cell and Platlet counts gone back up since avoiding Carots and taking folic acid?Have you been checked for MTHFR gene mutation? If not, I would HIGHLY recommend doing so (most doctors don’t check for this until a person has miscarried three times — a terrible crime considering one in three people have some form of MTHFR gene mutation!). In a nutshell, if you have a certain type of this mutation, your body will be folate-deficient (and you will lack the enzyme required to convert folic acid in the body). I just learned TODAY that I have homozygous MTHFR C667T gene mutation. I am positively floored by all I’ve learned in just one day (and this certainly explains my infertility issues, among other problems). It’s managed by a simple baby aspirin and 5mg of methyl folate (must be METHYL folate, not folic acid), which I will take daily for the rest of my life (certainly not a big deal!). It’s a simple blood test…and it could be life-changing for you and your baby. GOOD LUCK!PS: I failed to mention that MTHFR mutation is also directly linked to hypertension, preeclampsia, stroke, DVT, and a host of other health complications…but the high blood pressure/preeclampsia issue may be of particular interest to you!This is great information! For other reasons I have increased spinach, kale, and avocado in my diet. I just recently found out how important folic acid is when planning for pregnancy. I’m excited to know that I am on the right path! Thank you!during the start of my second trimester (after the horrible morning sickness passed) I craved oranges and broccoli like they were crack cocaine!  I’ve backed off the oranges, but steamed broccoli is like ‘candy’ to me anymore.Danielle, you are correct, and D.R. is wrong.  Folic acid is the
synthetic version of folate and requires several biological steps to break down into the bio-active substance (L-5-Methyltetrahydrofolate) that can actually be used by the body.  Many people lack the ability to break down synthetic folic acid into it’s usable form, a process that occurs in the liver.  The unmetabolized folic acid that is excreted by the liver and circulates in the blood stream is a health hazard that is implicated in many problems including increased cancers.  There is a lot of misinformation on this subject that is passed around and repeated on the internet at seemingly reputable websites such as the American Cancer Society and the site referred to by D.R..  While it would be ideal to obtain folate wholly from the diet, it is also available in bio-identical supplement form as L-5-Methyltetrahydrofolate.KIWIFRUIT! It has 38.2 mcg per 100 Grams (9.6% DV)do you have to boil some of these vegetables in order to get the folate? will you get the same benefit from raw? my wifes pregnant and her family history dicatates she get a lot of folate (and supp. with folic acid supplements).Thank you for mentioning this. I was diagnosed last  year and been learning all about this. It’s a whole nother world, since I was told i was positive for MTHFR & CBS, which both affect how i metabolize food & have to limit my sulfur and high ammonia foods. 40-60% of US population has MTHFRNo thank youRaw is always best..when you cook vegetables and fruit , you are killing many of the enzymes and nutrients.I’m confused.  So is L-MTHF not “synthetic”?  How is it sourced/made?  It seems like the only truly non-synthetic form would be that found in food?I believe you meant to say folate instead of folic acid. Folic acid is a synthetic form of folate which the government allows as a supplement in our food supply. Synthetics aren’t healthy, especially for pregnant women and small children. The best way to get folate is by a healthy diet of green leafy vegetables, broccoli, beans, fruits, nuts and seeds.Acids are present in many fruits and vegetables.I’m pregnant 8 weeks now my stomach can’t handle the folic acid supplemt I lost around 3 kg in 2 weeks bcz I’m vomiting when I’m on folic acid, my Q is can just eat the food reach of folic acid instead of having the supplement??This should be easy…I just “yummed” everything on this list except for cauliflower.I so happy to no all my favorite foods are beneficial to my
 unborn baby. I also had craving for avocados and all the green veggies since I became pregnant. Thank you for all the information you posted.^ gets the prize for stupidity!Hi, Kellie congratulations. I am also 11 week pregnant and have a very dificul time taking my prenatals and folic acid they make me sick, nausea and the folic acid makes me ancious and my appetite decrease a lot went i take it. I am so frustrated because I my doctor wants me to take all this synthetic crap, but my body reject most of it. I going to keep eating a healthy organic diet like I have my entire life and hope for the best. Like u said i feel so much better went i don’t take it and eat a healthier diet.
Reading your comment makes me more comfortable about going all natural.  I never knew I was pregnant two years ago. And I didn’t have enough folic acid in my body, I lost my son to a neural tube defect!! and not everyones body is the same!without folic acid, i can’t stay awake.. so i have to take folic acid tablets every three hours. if folic acid is man-made, then why do i need it so much?being folate is a good personality..example saying good morning is very folate to peopletake” unsulfered molasses”, and barley malt.  Make sure that they are organic…molasses, 2-3 tablespoons a day, organic, and organic barley malt, 1 tablespoon per-day.  I like to put my molasses in a cup of hot water.  Do ur study…:)  If your diabetic, start with 1 teaspoon of molasses and work up to 2 tablespoons…but again, i am not a doctor and do not prescribe, so, do your study…Yes, I am 50 years of age and am pregnant naturally..:)thank you for the information.Its your ridiculous demand for meat that has created corporate animal factory farms and the destruction of pasture lands and forests so that cheap soy and corn can be produced to feed animals bred for slaughter. You meat-eaters are directly responsible for the appalling conditions of these livestock and the destruction of the natural environment. Oh, and the methane gas produced by factory farmed animals is a major cause of global warming. Come on Phil, do some unbiased research of your own.Thanks for reading, Carlos.Unfortunately, “factory farmed animals” is a recent and disgusting development driven by profit that “meat-eaters” don’t agree with either. However, agriculture has been going on for 10,000 to 12,000 years, and no matter how organic you make it, remains unsustainable. Phil’s comment simply states a fact, not an opinion! Are you not able to see that every time you give land over to growing crops, you are robbing animals, right down to microbes, a place to live and breed? And wow unto them if they dare try to eat of those crops!Your comment on methane gas is also inaccurate. It was started by the UN, using a computer model based on very few facts, and has largely been critised by the scientific community and praised by the vegetarian community. The UN has agreed to look into and revise their estimates.
Of course there was a time that this planet was covered in millions upon millions of ruminant herds…but there was no global warming by methane then!No raw isn’t always best for getting the most folate! Smh. Spinach should be cooked just to wilting to get that much folate. Yes raw is better in many to most Joe. But also eating excessive amounts of cruciferous veg without cooking is not good for your thyroid function either. “craved oranges and broccoli like they were crack cocaine!” HA ! best laugh I’ve had in a long time.
Your comments make a lot of sense, the body has very wise appetites.Wow!!!It is nice what you are doing.  God put many good nutrients in our food. I like to eat many vegetables in row,and I am not eating meat,so people told me ,I can get lack of vitamin B12.Can’t I get this vitamin from any greens?My doctor sent me a note saying I was low on folic acid “probably because of my vegan diet.”  I hate when people automatically blame everything on my diet because I don’t eat meat.  Like every one else I don’t eat properly and surely since I’m single I don’t eat enough fresh greens… even some times nuts…. I have them I just don’t eat…  Thanks for the list…  Is flax seed oil a good source?  I put it on my salads just like some one would olive oil…and not I don’t just eat salads.  If I remember correctly another doctor said I was low on folate, and he suggested eating nuts and I think the term was folate, I remember it starting with an F.  I starting eating nuts like cashews and almonds.  The next time they did the test it was fine.  People saying you can’t be healthy by being vegetarian isn’t correct, if you eat properly you will get enough of your nutrients and natural supplements.   I’ve been vegetarian for over 20 years, and though yes I have health issues, those issue where not brought about by being vegetarian, in fact because of those issues I became vegetarian, and I’m still here today.hi am Krishnaveni.. planning for pregnancy.. can you suggest me folate and vitamin foods which helps to form a baby..I would suggest getting your body ready by performing a .Very helpful to read your folate vs. folic acid explanation
Following that, I think your next header should read as FOODS HIGHEST IN FOLATE, not FOLIC ACID, these are the natural food sources that you’re encouraging people to eat more of.Helps keep readers clear on what’s best sources….Good point, Jan. A lot of times there is some confusion about the differences between the two. Took your suggestion and made the distinction in the heading.jajajajajjajaI have been taking the nutritional food supplement Juice Plus+ and this information could have been written about Juice Plus+.  Great informationThank you so much for this list.  I know how important Folic Acid is when you are trying to conceive but I always prefer to find the nutrients I need naturally in the foods I am eating rather than in a synthetic vitamin.  This is the perfect list, and I am so happy to know I am already eating almost all of these foods every day, so this should be a breeze.  Thanks!  🙂Where’s quinoa? it’s has 29% of the DRV per serving!So, what are you saying, people who eat meat don’t also consume fruits, vegetables, and grains?  Unless you are carnivorous, your argument is moot.
And isn’t most grain produced to feed livestock?Quinoa is great! Check out this article-Plus, you can get B12 from sources other than meat.  Plants, like Moringa for example, contain B12.  You can also get B12 from fortified non dairy milks, supplements, energy bars, and meat analogs.A few years back I had some bloodwork that showed I have a genetic anomaly where my body doesn’t use up folic acid, but it instead stores it up. I was told that if my levels were too high I would get blood clots. The Hematologist told me my levels were fine at the time and that the only thing I needed to do was not start taking any vitamins with folic acid. Above you said that folate functions differently than folic acid. So does that mean I’m safe eating all the high folate foods? It’s only vitamins I need worry about?That’s a great question but given the stakes you’ve described, it’s probably best directed to your primary care provider who is familiar with your personal, specific situation.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()NO to folic acid.  (Processed Foods that say enriched are a big no no.  Enriched processed foods maybe good short term in times of crisis and famine…otherwise long term use is bad.  How many studies have to show this before we listen.) Folic Acid is NOT folate. They are different. It is a misconception. So, Yes to folate in natural foods.  Folic acid didnt exist before 1940..  This could be the new tobacco or sugar epidemic. 1 in 2 people have genetic malformations unable to process this folic acid. OUr bodies can NOT use folic acid. Its linked to cancer,  Neurological and cognitive issues like ADD and depression, possibly autism.  And maybe why we are seeing increased rates.They say you need the folic acid before you become pregnant as well as during.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()I’m not a vegetarian, but a diet much lower in meats would do the planet good and when I do eat meat I don’t put on the blinders–I research local sources of animals that have been fed properly, on small farms, without pesticide and GMO products, that practice pasture rotation. We don’t have to be fanatical either way–to eat meat or not–but rather try to make a careful and informed decision and don’t fall for the cheap food trap–that has it’s costs (in depleted land, carbon released, antibiotics used, species demise, and human health). If we wanted to know how to produce food in a sustainable way we could–nature shows us the way–it’s just a matter in investing in that rather than the packaged and factory farmed food that have costs that never factor in to the price.Pingback: ()My daughter in law ate extremely healthy and did light exercise throughout her pregnancy. She had to have a c-section but she recovered very quickly and the doctor told her after her deliver that the embilical cord was the healthiest he had ever seen. Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()You are more than right! I always thought the same.Pingback: ()Thanks for knowledge about folic acid .  I was just worried about my health. my hemoglobin was not as good as I wanted  for doing exercise.  I would like to spread your words. Nutrional yeast contains Vit B 12. It has a nice cheesy flavor.  You don’t need the supplement, just buy Nutritional Yeast.!!!The man-made version is never better than the natural!!!Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Absolutely, in fact it’s better for you!Pingback: ()This article explicitly states, “…While folic acid and folate are often marketed as one and the same,
their metabolic effects can be quite different. Folate is the
bioavailable, natural form of vitamin B9 found in a variety of plant and
 animal foods…” so synthetic forms of vitamins are not necessarily bio-equivalent to the natural form.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Why did you describe the difference between folate and folic acid and then use the terms interchangeably when writing about the content in foods?Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()sure…you did ALL the research and that’s ALWAYS the case. Sheep.Is dv like rda? (Recommended daily allowance)Yep.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()So if someone has the mthfr gene and takes folic acid, could they be hurting their baby?  If so, how?  Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()I realize eating fresh veges if best BUT where we are by the time fresh is shipped it has lost nutrition. SO, in between the june-oct farmers mkt is frozen or canned have the best nutritional value?It’s hard to beat fresh but if I had to choose a substitute I’d probably go with frozen. Tin cans can be lined with BPA, among other reasons.Pingback: ()This article is complete bull.  Folic acid is highly toxic to my wife and daughter.  They have to go through regular detox from folic acid regularly or else they would gain too much weight, their blood would clot, and they would die.  It is articles like this, that is killing people all around the world. Unqualified and ignorant writers need to be more careful.  This article is fiction.  It is false.  It is misleading and very dangerous if taken seriously.What in the world are you even talking about?Folic Acid is a synthetic form of folate.  General Mills and other companies add folic acid to their food thinking it’s good for everyone.  A lot of people’s body’s  can’t process folic acid, which causes it to build up slowly in their bodies making them appear fat.  This in tern leads to issues unexplained issues like anemia,  cancers, hormone changes, blood clots, etc… just because no one thinks to check for folic acid poisoning. Pingback: ()Pingback: ()I can’t have Folic Acid— I’m at loss on what’s left to eat-
SafPingback: ()Pingback: ()Moderation in All Things… A wise quote from a previous generationPingback: ()I think the key issue here is some people cannot process the man made folic acid as readily as natural version (identified as folate on various labels and usually in parenthese after the words “folic acid”).  Man made folic acid is used quite often in multivitamins  and added to fortify cereals, breads etc.  For those who are known to have MTHFR defects it might be good to avoid man made folic acid products as much as possible and strive for more natural consumption.  Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()edamame or soy beans.  one cup has over 100% rda!Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()An article on good sources of folate should mention the livers of ducks, turkeys and chickens as they are possibly the richest source, nut the author appears to be a staunch vegan.Both of you guys are some of the dumbest people I’ve ever seen. Ever hear of grass fed beef? The dummy above doesn’t even realize it’s also agriculture. LOL. And you… that bit about methane gas is absolutely hilarious. SO stupid!In my family we eat cigarettes. Daddy says it will give us mutant powers and make us strong.Pingback: ()One of the highest forms of Folate and B12 in foods is found in duck liver. Just a 44g liver will give you 990% of your daily value of bio-available B12 and 82% dv of your dietary folate intake. Sorry VegansPingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()I think you need to check your nutriontion facts… Your information seems to be a little off.  Especially on the Spinach.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Why is there no liver… it contains literally tens of times more of all the b vitamins. Ridicilously bad site..Pingback: ()Pingback: ()NO! D.R., folic acid and folate are NOT the same thing, and the difference is NOT trivial. You are spreading a dangerous falsehood that may in fact harm people who have methylation problems. Your post should be removed.Pingback: ()Moderation in all things, including moderation. In this day and age, we can all afford to be whatever we want as long as we are smart. Respect all humans from omnivore, to herbivore. (carnivore would prob.
 be unhealthy for humans..) (maybe as not as smart as we used to be) hahahahhahahahahahahahModeration in all things, including moderation. In this day and age,
we can all afford to be whatever we want as long as we are smart.
Respect all humans from omnivore, to herbivore. (carnivore would prob. be unhealthy for humans..) (maybe as not as smart as we used to be)Pingback: ()Pingback: ()If we fall below 150ppm C02, and it’s not C”o”2, all life on earth dies.  Why are vegan woman off their diets to get pregnant and why does their infants HAVE to have extra protein special supplements (or regular formula ). A vegan diet will prevent an otherwise healthy infant to thrive.  Agriculture feeds people – get over it.LOL, no such thing as global warming – can’t believe two fools arguing against our basic food diet, veggies and meat… ah comedy gold find today!  Besides the adults are back in charge now.LOL I know,  just stumbled upon this thread, hilarous these two fools are both against basic food, meat and veggies… wish they’d start “a remove my miserable self movement… “Very true, esp on veggies, closer to their natural state you can consume them the better.  I have an adaptation of a stir-fry I make, can get 8 veggies in – I’m lovin it.  I make so much I use a pot! lol Addicted to Boc Choy.  Base is sesame oil, hoisin sauce and teriyaki of course!  🙂 Goes with a nice roast, or on a bed of rice noodles or rice pilaf…Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()my business was searching for RI Realtors 1401 (R-101) several days ago and was informed of a business that hosts a lot of fillable forms . If people are interested in RI Realtors 1401 (R-101) as well , here’s a Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Fortunately, many foods are naturally rich sources of folic acid. A well-planned diet should easily keep your system well-supplied with the vitamin.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Whole foods have FOLATE, not folic acid. Folic acid is MAN MADE and exists only in processed, enriched foods and supplements.  If you are eating vegetables you are eating FOLATE, not folic acid. I’m surprised the author of this otherwise helpful article doesn’t know the difference. This is important because people with an MTHFR gene mutation should avoid folic acid, as it cannot be used by those who have the mutation. Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()provides 262 mcg of folic acid, which provides approximately 65% of your daily needs. Not only is asparagus delicious, but it’s also full of nutrients your body craves, including vitamin K, vitamin C, vitamin A, and manganese.[5]Many fruits contain folic acid, and citrus fruits rank the highest. Oranges are an especially rich source of folic acid.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()A small bowl of any type of lentils provides most of your daily folate needs.[3] Here is a short list of beans with the most folic acid.[4]Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Celery is commonly regarded as a great food to help with kidney stones, but did you know it’s also a great source for folic acid? Just one cup of raw celery provides about 36 mcg of folate, accounting for about 9% of your daily needs.daily diet provides an immediate boost in folic acid. Just one large plate of these delicious leafy greens will fulfill nearly all of your daily folate needs.[4]Many foods contain folate, but if you still find yourself falling short of ideal intake, then supplementation may be a smart step for you. Folate (or folic acid) is available in multi-vitamins. I recommend IntraMax™, an all-in-one liquid vitamin supplement. IntraMax contains over 415 essential vitamins and minerals, including 200% of your daily recommended intake of folate.Are you not able to see that every time you give land over to growing crops, you are robbing animals, right down to microbes, a place to live and breed?I think when it comes to the foods you listed you should be writing the percentage of folate not folic acid, unless you’re saying these foods contain the synthetic form. You explain at the beginning that folic acid is the synthetic form of folate. So these foods should contain folate, the reader is told at the beginning. But someone new to understanding foods with folate I am confused with the interchange of the words you do here. Either don’t tell us folic acid is the synthetic form of folate or tell us but then stay consistent and don’t switch out the word.