Himalayan salt, also known as Himalayan crystal salt, is a type of rock salt best known for its striking pink color which comes from the natural presence of several trace minerals, including magnesium and iodine. Himalayan salt is unrefined and hand-mined from caves in northern Pakistan. Because it’s millions of years old and has sat untouched, many people believe that Himalayan crystal salt is a better option than standard table salt, which may contain toxins and pollutants.Himalayan crystal salt has matured over the past 250 million years under intense tectonic pressure in an environment that’s free of toxins and impurities. Even better, this form of salt contains about 80 natural minerals and elements used by the human body. It’s popular in Ayurvedic, Tibetan, and other traditions. Adherents believe that Himalayan salt’s unique cellular structure allows it to store vibrational energy. Many also believe that natural Himalayan crystal salt offers health benefits such as:Advocates of traditional medicine believe that processed table salt is energetically dead, as its crystals are completely isolated from one another. For the body to metabolize chemical table salt, it must expend tremendous amounts of energy to keep the body in a state of optimum fluid balance. This creates a burden on the body’s elimination systems as water is removed from other cells in an attempt to neutralize the unnatural, processed salts.The table salt found in most homes, restaurants, and processed food is void of nutritional value and lacks beneficial trace minerals. Many people are unaware that common table salt is processed with questionable chemicals and dried at more than 1,200° Fahrenheit—a process that disrupts its natural chemical structures.The average American consumes 3,400 mg of sodium chloride a day, over 1,000 mg more than the recommended limit. The body cannot dispose of it in a natural, healthy way, which can lead to tissue irritation, water retention, and high blood pressure.Many of the traditionally attributed health benefits of Himalayan salt have yet to be scientifically established, but regardless of what salt you choose, it is clear that  can have a huge impact on your health and well-being. Fortunately, salt isn’t the only way to get vital trace minerals into your body. For that, I recommend , an all-natural trace mineral supplement. Exclusively derived from plant sources, IntraMin offers 71 organically bound trace minerals including magnesium, iodine, fulvic acid, calcium, potassium, and iron.Have you made the switch to Himalayan salt? Have you noticed an effect on your health and well-being? Leave a comment below and share your thoughts with us.
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.This is so weird. My grandma bought some of this Himalayan salt over the recent holidays, and gave each of us in the family a little bit to take home. I literally just ran out of my share a few days ago, and was completely clueless as to where I could find it. None of the grocery stores carry it. Thank you for the informative article about crystal salt. I am going to forward this to my grandma right now.Dear Dr Edward Group,
I really enjoyed your article on the Himalayan salt. It is very informative.
I’m bringing a new therapeutic way of the Himalayan salt to the USA. It is the Halotherapy. I will open the Salt cave in August in Florida. If You interested, please visit my website and let me know what You think.
Thank You, ANDREADr. Edward,
This is an excellent post. Information is very useful.  Fact is there are so many types of salts that we are un-aware of.  There is also salt which comes from region called sindh (towards pakistan).  This salt as we call it in India “sindha namak”.  Namak means salt and sindha refers to region sindh.  You might consider it for your blogs.Where can I find Himalayan salt?What about sea salt and whole salt?Has anyone commented on how BAD this salt tastes?  The trace elements make it an impossible culinary ingredient.  I finally ended up using mine as a base for essential oils in a diffuser and it works great for that application.Well obviously not everyone thinks Himalayan taste bad.  4 star restaurants use it.  – 3rd review downMaybe you had the wrong food with your salt. I love it and we sell many pounds of it off our website.Whole Foods Market carries it.i’ve been told too soak it for 20 in bath wtr befoer getting in, also to drink a glass of hima-salt wtr daily.  are these methods among common use?anxious to see halotherapy and relation to salt from Hym.  My son and I are extensively involved with this salt here in the US. Please reply so we can interact with each other.This is one of the most popular culinary trends right now.  Food grade Pink Himalayan salt is delicious and known for it’s health benefits but like say French Grey sea salt you need to learn how to use it and on which foods. Grey salt is popular on potatoes and steaks but not say on delicate foods like a salad. Pink salt can be used in a variety of foods, especially if you grate it yourself with a plane grater. It is like any other new food you have never cooked with before. You need to learn to use it properly.Wow, I love the taste of Himalayan Salt.  It’s the only one I use now.  I did a taste test of regular salt (gag), Sea Salt, (Not as bad tasting, but not good) and Himalayan Salt which I find mellow and not harsh like the others.  I’ve given it to my friends and family and they all have switched over to the Himalayan.  I get the Barbara Hendel’s brand from Swanson’s Vitamins, maybe you tried another brand? I’ve only tried hers.  Also I never swell with the Himalayan salt but always swelled the next day after I had eaten regular table salt.Indian medical system recamends Himalayan rock salt.It prevents and also cures cancer.It also increases the life span that is why Himalayan folks live longer. Thank you for the vital message.Himalayan salt has reduced my blood pressure, improved my over all well-being, and made my food taste much better.  I also sleep better using Himalayan salt lamps, they really clean up my air well. Thank you!Trader Joe’sI have been using Himalayan salt for more than 6 months and I love it. If I am somewhere  that doesn’t have this salt ~ I use nothing.
I love the taste ~ so much so that sometimes I just suck on the rocks.
I am now 95% raw food and found that I am able to use this salt when I want. I probably should get more salt in my ‘new’ diet. Himalayan is the only way to go!This is very helpful. Recently I have started really keeping track of my calories, sodium and fat intake and I think this type of salt will really help me reach my goal.If you’re looking for a magic bullet, you seriously are in for a sad one. It’s salt, and look at the benefits are compared to chemically treated salts. This is extremely biased. While sodium itself has these effects on your body, you’re right standard table salt is absolute garbage.  Obviously it’s going to be better worlds better, but still you’re going to get bi products just from them digging all this up. Think they do it by hand? Think it’s shipped here by a guy hitching a ride on a Camel? No.. ancient salt. Once it’s gone man, it’s gone. We’re feeding off reserves. Same goes for oil too, I suppose.  Main stream food is absolute garbage anyway, our agriculture is sad. Your super market is just 1 Giant market place for 5 different company’s to serve you garbage until you develop cancer, get sick, die. Food dies, preservatives, food stripped of all nutritional value, genetically modified franken’ crops. Whatever you consume has an impact on your dna. Whatever you expose yourself to, also has an effect on your DNA.Dear Dr. Edward,
This morning I found a small packet of “Sindha Salt” (It is Kanchan Brand) at the local Reliance Fresh store, in Bhubaneswar, Orissa. I asked the people working there if they had any information about it. They made a few phone calls but couldn’t tell me anything about it. It is faintly pink and is already processed (free running). I’d like to know more about it, and how genuine this salt is, and what it contains,whether it is worth taking or replacing the regular common white salt. I already use black namak.
Thank you.My youngest son had very serious eczema, that would cover most of his body.  He started spraying Sole onto the skin and found that it worked wonders.  He also started drinking the salt concentrate.  He now refuses to ever be without it, his sinus problems cleared up, more energy, wonderful improvement of his skin, weight loss.  It truly is a remarkable product.  I have also switched over and no longer use sea salt for cooking, and sprinkling onto dishes.Himalayan Rock Salt contains some radiating elements like:Radium,Actinium,Uranium,Neptunium,Plutonium,etc.
These elements should be harmful to human body…
Can anyone explain?The Himalayan salt have so many benefits for the human health.The genuine Himalayan crystal salt is not only delicious but spread a typical aroma when you mill it. In case you are interested to taste or even to see the genuine Himalayan crystal salt then please visit our website . there are many different color and crystals of genuine Himalayan crystal salt are exhibited there for your interest and information.come and joined us.So where do you get Himalayan Salt. I love salt and I know it is really bad for your body. This blog is a wake up call and I need to change from table salt to Himalayan. Can someone let me know where to get the Himalayan salt? Thank you!I love salt and I know it salt have so many benefits for the human health. But What about sea salt and whole salt?Himalayan Crystal Salt is the unique, genuine, unpolluted and mineral rich salt which helps to regulate your body’s blood sugar, water, and PH level, and promotes respiratory health.I ordered some through amazon.com.  Seems expensive but it’s absolutely fabulous!  Very definite taste difference than regular table salt.All “Himalayan” salt is from Pakistan. I’m from Sweden,but I live in Malaysia. I buy it here for US$ 1,78/Kg. It’s SALT! Use your brains!Peace to everyone!My Mom has osteoarthritis, Can Himalayan salt help in her case? God bless you!i would love to visit your website please inform thank youIt tastes like regular salt. It doesn’t taste bad at all!I just bought my first Himalayan Sea Salt at Trader Joe’s. I learned of it from doing a Reset with the company that I am an Independent distributor for. Part of it is using the Salt in your distilled water 3 times a day with other supplements and a great diet plan to follow. I think that this salt has a great taste and I am so glad that I found out the benefits of it. All of the other table salt is going out of my house immedialtly. Thanks for the awesome informative article!Hello Cindy!  I know this is off topic:  never-the-less, what company are you an independent distributor for that allowed you to learn about sea salt.  I am interested in learning about the company.By the way, I do use pure sea salt, and it has amazing benefits as far as my sleeping is concerned.  When I used it before bed, I have such peaceful sleep.  Also, it is one of the best cleansers for oral health.Cindy, Is that the BB Reset? That and another friend mentioning how her Lyme’s symptoms lessen when taking Himalayan Sea Salt brought me here looking, too.One of the best places I have found to purchase all differnt kinds of salts for a reasonable price is Salt Works.    Sometimes they even offer free shipping!
🙂The average American consumes 5,000 mg (also known as 5 grams) a day. That’s less than half the weight of a penny.The salt can’t possibly contain Neptunium or Plutonium. Because the heaviest naturally occurring element, is element 92 Uranium. All elements above that on earth like Neptunium ( element 93) and Plutonium (element 94) are man made. So unless somebody dropped a nuclear bomb on the salt mines, the rock salt doesn’t contain any neptunium or plutonium.  thanks for the info.Hello Tasha, I don’t think Cindy replied to your post here and it has been 3 months. I’m pretty sure it is Beachbody she is referring to. Stop Bad Dreams / Put Sea Salt On Your Tongue
 Sprinkle it on your beer.  It will make you feel like god.I’m sure someone’s already responded to your request, but I found it at Cosco in the spice section. I love this stuff!Tasha, I believe the company is beachbody and they educate us on many nutritional items, it’s really awesome 🙂Spring, I’m pretty sure it is 🙂 The reset is very awesome, the results will amaze you. I have been using himalayan salt ever since.food in packages is  processed garbage loaded with toxins.
get your head out of your asssso does Trader Joe’sHeidi you can go to Trader Joe’s and Wholefoods if you are in CA.I agree. Any time you voice your opinion so boldly people will think you are a finatic, which is so the opposite. If they would not take it personally and see how honest and see how true the facts are, they would thank you. People believe eating mass marketed food that is produced on machines are really healthy for them because companies would not intentionally poison them. Ha, it is all about the money.  If the trucks stopped rolling delivering your food to grocery stores the shelves would be empty in about three days, then what. I use Himalayan salt and it does all the things it says it does in the articles but I am not naive either in the fact that the salt is mined, transported, packaged and sold the same as everything else we consume, so to say it is 100% free of toxins is ludicrous but do the benefits outweigh the amount of production of the product, yes.Have just started using himalaya salt.  Can’t wait to see the effects.  My neighbour sells it at the markets for $3.50 per 100gramsCostco carries it!Got a 369 gram grinder at Costco for 3.99.Himalayan Salt is over 98% sodium chloride. Most of the rest is an inert mineral called gypsum. Other minerals are present in minuscule amounts.  It is no better or worse for you than any other salt sold, just way more expensive.  Another scam separating the naive from their money.i love this saltthe energy drink that i made with it was so good.Health food stores better  food quality standards Your statement above “Processing salt turns it into sodium chloride, an unnatural salt the human body actually sees as a toxic invader!”Extract from Wiklpedia “In 2003 the Bavarian consumer protection agency Bayerisches Landesamt für Gesundheit und Lebensmittelsicherheit analyzed 15 specimens of Himalaya salt sold in Germany and could detect at least ten different minerals, in addition to sodium chloride (98%)”.
I always thought Salt was Sodium Chloride (NACL) a natuaral element. How can your Sodium Chloride be different from the one mentioned above?I have friends that are making a water solution with this pink salt and drinking it each day to add minerals and help with dehydration. At the same time I am reading more and more about the dangers of too much sodium. Can someone please explain why what they are doing will not contribute to having too much sodium (if that’s true)?drinking salt in water . . will that add to your sodium levels? I am confused about sodium intake.Did you even read the article?  It is not the same.  And it is not a scam.  I don’t pay lots for the stuff.  I am getting it in a grinder at one of the “big box stores” for a very reasonable price.  I was using kosher salt before (also reasonable) but quit because of the thing they add to it to make it “flow” which contains cyanide which is released when exposed to acid.  I have also used a salt inhaler when sick with excellent results.  I did my own research but this article IS correct.  This guy is not telling you this to sell it to you, he is telling you this because it is true.  We all have to make our own decisions.  Mine will be to use natural salts and not those processed and then laced with chemicals in order to have better “quality”.This article is a farce, and the author knows nothing about chemistry. ALL salt dissociates into its ions when added to water. It is hard to believe that folks actually believe some of this stuff, but scientific ignorance knows no boundsRob,
What got me interested was the claim it lowers blood sugars.
 and do not have accurate researc Dada so  sometime stumble on these things.
Bottom line,
Does it help lower blood sugars?
Thx
Jimmy Pantner @ FacebookYou work for the government don’t you? Uh, good work!You’ve just killed my buzz with that dose of scientific reality. I was allowing myself to be lulled into thinking this could be the answer to my low salt diet problems. Hard to disagree with the view that it’s snake oil. I’ll be leaving that pink salt on the shelf along with the homeopathic remedies so….This is all an absolute farce. gram for gram sea salt has the exact same amount of sodium as “table salt.” you claim “table salt” is bad because it is an unnatural chemical “sodium chloride” – that is what  SEA SALT is composed of as well. Both are structurally the same compound – sodium chloride. The fact that you claim there is a difference in their composition reveals you are a liar and a FRAUD.Sea salt may contain traces of calcium, potassium, and magnesium sulfates – but the fact that you claim it holds some “special benefit” because it is “ancient” is just pure fabrication. Shame on you.Hi Eric, Thanks for reading.  I’m sorry this article made you upset. You certainly have the right to prefer table salt.Wow thanks for this info. Just found out abou Himalayan salt a couple of weeks ago. Most of this article does not make any sense- Colodial does not mean small enough to absorb, it means dispersed.  SALT IS SODIUM CHLORIDE ..
I’m thinking this is just a new way to market salt.what is sole?Check this information:most grocery stores have, i live in near chicago, so many international stores. i prefer shopping ethnic foods, anyhow. as i from chicago we eat lots of ethnic foods.its on sale for 2.99 i buy a pound bag tomorrow.Thank you for the laugh Edward. The palaeontologists at work cracked up over the “maturing over the past 250 million years under intense tectonic pressure,” I loved the “Its minerals exist in a colloidal form, meaning that they are tiny enough for our cells to easily absorb.”  This is gold as we both know a dry crystal can’t be a colloid. The mineralogists want some magic salt for the collection. “Himalayan salt’s unique cellular structure allows it to store vibrational energy.” The herpetologist wanted to point out that Chloride and Sodium ions are needed in all living creatures. Salt is needed for fluid regulation Sodium in nerve signalling ” but I explained that your article was satire poking fun at the people who actually believe such alternative clap-trap.Hello   All I want to know is how is this salt for Iodine level?  I have just been diagnosed with Overactive Thyroid.  I don’t even use table salt for years…  Someone told me about Himalayan Pink salt- I have found some– Its so SALTY tasting I almost cannot stand it…  But will it help or harm my thyroid levels……..be honest  – My life is on a huge balancing act rigt now…   tipping the wrong way…I’ve been using this salt for a while, and now I can actually see in the dark!There will always be those who choose to blast at natural alternatives. Be wise and do your own research and try it yourself. I had to try it myself, along with the salt lamps to know that this is indeed a valid wholesome product. Jesus said that Christians were the salt of the earth. At that time pure salt was valuable and even used for currency. What a far cry from today’s chemical salt. Just to taste the difference should convince you and I am betting you would never go back to the white chemical labeled as “salt” in the store.Your salt and water ratio must be balanced. Too much of either is not a good thing. Water flushes out minerals while salt uses our water. You can Google this for some up to date advice.You can find it at Walmart on the baking aisle with the spices and it comes in a salt grinder. I get mine from Vitacost and Utopia Silver as well. Google it and find a wealth of places if you don’t find it locally.I have noticed, that for the most part, when I get a headache I suck on a few small chunks of this salt and it helps my headache ease if not go away. I tried it with regular salt and it does nothing. I like the taste much better too!!BJ’s carries it as well.I mix salt with manuka honey for face scrub leaves skin lovely and smoothHimalayan Salt. Is it from Himalayan region. Where it is available?Can you please state your references? I would like to read some of these studies that you “cite” in your article. I’m sorry but I’m a medical doctor (an MD) and some of your claims just do not make any sense. What information do you take exception to?I hope we aren’t pillaging the earth to get this salt.It’s a good thing there are no chemicals in Himalayan salt.  I mean that stuff in the store is sodium chloride!  Himalayan sodium chloride doesn’t have any sodium chloride in it!  Plus…vibrational energies, man.Sprouts carries it too.  I started using it instead of table salt and feel so much better.  No more retaining water.  My ankles and feet used to swell but not any more.  If I go back to table salt,  my feet swell and I do not feel as well.  Love the tastePure Himalayan salt for salecontact angel2000keep eating that poison sheep and do not forget to wash it down with some nice fluoridated water. Now go graze.troll and shill!idiotyou must be really really toxic and used to harsh chemical table salts. I eat it and it tastes amazing.This is one of the biggest load of bollocks I’ve read. You contradict yourself even within the article: “…creating an environment of zero exposure to toxins and impurities.”“Himalayan Crystal Salt contains the same 84 natural minerals and elements found in the human body” Well salt is NaCl, so anything else is an impurity. The common pink colour of ‘Himalayan salt’ is caused by impurities! I’m not saying those impurities are bad, it’s just that if there were zero impurities it would be 100% NaCl (sodium chloride). “Processing salt turns it into sodium chloride, an unnatural salt the human body actually sees as a toxic invader!” Umm…. Salt, is the mineral halite, which has the chemical composition NaCl,  which is sodium chloride. It doesn’t matter what type of salt it is, it is almost entirely composed of SODIUM CHLORIDE. It’s not precessing that turns salt into sodium chloride, that’s just what salt is. If anything I reckon using Himalayan salt is worse for the planet than normal table salt. It has to be mined on a huge industrial scale, processed, and then shipped across to world to be sold to chumps. Much better to just evaporate some seawater.Keep falling victim to blatant marketing techniques tricking your unthinking self into buying faux-natural “garbage”. Himalayan sea salt is LITERALLY the exact same chemical makeup as table salt. You’re nothing more than a passive, ignorant conspicuous consumer. Do your homework.Jeeze man, you get pretty upset about salt. It’s not sea salt either, it’s from the mountains. But on to a bigger issue — why you so mad, bro?Will it rise your blood pressure People like you I refer to as stupified.The average American consumes 5,000 mg of sodium chloride a day, the issue is serious and needs to be adressed.If the average American consumes 5000mg of Himalayan salt per day will we not have problems too?Do they sell this salt in Malaysia? Could u please tell me where ? I live in sweden at the moment i buy 150gr for around 2 usd which is quite reasonable anyway but i would like to find these and buy for my parents in vietnam. Tack 🙂I found mine at costcoI am from Pakistan ,Its really expensive as you wrote ,Here its cheap as world largest reserves locatedNever ever again will I use this. It’s taken 3 days just to get my rings off not to mention my mouth taste of nonstop salt. My husband licked my face to see if I taste like salt. He was amazed at how salty I taste. I have been miserable for the past week. Please be careful. You’re supposed to use it sparingly, not eat the entire box for a meal. SMHI was looking up articles to used in my classroom to develop science literacy which means learning to decipher between true articles and scams. This is a great example of a scam! My students will find this “article” easy to analyse and find the scientific errors in it as there are so many falsehoods and inaccuracies it’s ridiculous. You’d think that people would know better than to believe everything they read without ever questioning the validity of what is written. I would even recommend that you do your own research on the subject but please, use some common sense. You may also want to find one of the students from the tv show “Are You Smarter Than a 5th Grader” to verify what you have found. They’ll probably get it right.Check out cellular structure and crystal and then reread the “article”. It’s quite funny.Awakened people don’t insult so that just goes to show 🙂 cindy don’t waste your energy….its their loss.like you said some people are not “awake” Oh that is so well written 🙂 beautifully put !!!I want to meet more people like you.Where did you see the nutrient breakdown?  I have been looking for a reliable laboratory chemical panel and haven’t found one.Actually our bodies need lots of good “SALTS” to function properly. The myth you talk of is the indistinguishable language revolving around a word called salt. Mostly meaningless, until qualified.If you are unaware of the dangers of too much of one of the “SALTS” out of balance with all the other essential “SALTS” i.e. sodium overload, then you might want to check out the levels of sodium chloride in any form of NaCl as the overload of sodium can cause many problems, unless it is plant based. You also might want to consider how bio-available rock based minerals are.Just because minerals appear healthy and necessary, doesn’t mean they are absorbable in any form. Of course the supplement industry, with its anti caking agents and stearates would like you to believe otherwise. We are not designed to assimilate from rocks. Sodium overload can be real, depending on its form. I hope you are not giving medical advice.Very interesting that you can be so correct when stating that Himalayan Salt is over 98% NaCl  and other trace minerals are in tiny quantities.Claiming that  “It is no better or worse for you than any other salt sold” when table salt is full of industrial pollutants, shows that you are mentally challenged.I jut finished a seven day bone broth fast and am now doing a simple diet of steamed veggies, a small amount of organic meat, lots of probiotics and other supplements.  My naturopath also recommende that I drink Himalayan salt water made with two teaspoons of salt a day. This seems really excessive to me. Is this safe and healthy in this large of a quantity?Hi LaDiva, I’ve got this analysis from one of the Amazon’s Himalayan Salt users:CHEMICAL ANALYSIS1. Aluminium (Al) 0.45 ppm 2. Antimony (Sb) 2.27 ppm 3. Arsenic (As) <0.5 ppm4. Barium (Ba) 0.18 ppm 5. Beryllium (Be) <0.1 ppm 6. Bismuth (Bl <0.1 ppm7. Boron (B) <0.1 ppm 8. Bromine (Br) 4.76 ppm 9. Cadmium (Cd) 0.13 ppm10. Calcium (Ca) 1380 ppm 11. Carbon (C) 68.0 ppm 12. Cerium (Ce) 1.87 ppm13. Caesium (Cs) 0.82 ppm 14. Chloride (Cl) 598,000 ppm 15. Chromium (Cr) 0.191 ppm16. Cobalt (Co) <0.1 ppm 17. Copper (Cu) 0.69 ppm 18. Dysprosium (Dy) <0.1 ppm19. Erbium (Er) 0.219 ppm 20. Europium (Eu) <0.1 ppm 21. Fluoride (F) 7.22 ppm22. Gadolinium (Gd) 1.72 ppm 23. Gallium (Ga) 1.65 ppm 24. Germanium (Ge) 0.39 ppm25. Gold (Au) <0.1 ppm 26. Hafnium (Hf) <0.1 ppm 27. Holmium (Ho) <0.1 ppm28. Indium (In) <0.1 ppm 29. Iodine ( I ) 1.42 ppm 30. Iridium (Ir) <0.05 ppm31. Iron (Fe) 14.2 ppm 32. Lanthanum (La) <0.1 ppm 33. Lead (Pb) 0.07 ppm34. Lithium (Li) 0.59 ppm 35. Lutetium (Lu) <0.1 ppm 36. Magnesium (Mg) 20,100 ppm37. Manganese (Ma) <0.1 ppm 38. Mercury (Hg) <0.02 ppm 39. Molybdenum (Mo) <0.1 ppm40 Neodymium (Nd) <0.1 ppm 41. Nickel (Ni) <0.1 ppm 42. Niobium (Nb) <0.1 ppm43. Osmium (Os <0.05 ppm 44. Palladium (Pd <0.05 ppm 45. Phosphorus (P) <0.5 ppm46. Platinum (Pt) <0.05 ppm 47. Potassium (K) 2900 ppm 48. Praseodymium (Pr) 0.19 ppm49. Rhenium (Re) <0.1 ppm 50. Rhodium (Rh) <0.05 ppm 51. Rubidium (Rb) 7.99 ppm52. Ruthenium (Ru) <0.1 ppm 53. Samarium (Sm) 3.87 ppm 54. Scandium (Sc) <0.1 ppm55. Selenium (Se) <0.05 ppm 56. Silicon (Si) 10.7 ppm 57. Silver (Ag) 0.063 ppm58. Sodium (Na) 374,000 ppm 59. Strontium (Sr) 6.98 ppm 60. Sulfur (S) 1680 ppm61. Tantalum (Ta) 0.53 ppm 62. Tellurium (Te) <0.1 ppm 63. Terbium (Tb) <0.1 ppm64. Thallium (Tl) 0.69 ppm 65. Thorium (Th) <0.1 ppm 66. Thulium (Tm) <0.1 ppm67. Tin (Sn) <0.1 ppm 68. Titanium (Ti) 0.38 ppm 69. Tungsten (W) <0.1 ppm70. Vanadium (V) 8.78 ppm 71. Ytterbium (Yb) <0.05 ppm 72. Yttrium (Y) <0.05 ppm73. Zinc (Zu) 4.92 ppm 74. Zirconium (Zr) 0.48 ppmOR if you wish a more detailed list:Element Order Num. Results Analysis TypeHydrogen H 1 0.30g/kg DINLithium Li 3 0.40g/kg AASBeryllium Be 4 <0.01ppm AASBoron B 5 <0.001ppm FSKCarbon C 6 <0.001ppm FSKNitrogen N 7 0.024ppm ICGOxygen O 8 1.20g/kg DINFlouride F- 9 <0.1g/kg PotentiometerSodium Na+ 11 382.61g/kg FSMMagnesium Mg 12 0.16g/kg AASAluminum Al 13 0.661ppm AASSilicon Si 14 <0.1g/kg AASPhosphorus P 15 <0.10ppm ICGSulfur S 16 12.4g/kg TXRFChloride Cl- 17 590.93g/kg gravimetriePotassium K+ 19 3.5g/kg FSMCalcium Ca 20 4.05g/kg TitrationScandium Sc 21 <0.0001ppm FSKTitanium Ti 22 <0.001ppm FSKVanadium V 23 0.06ppm AASChromium Cr 24 0.05ppm AASManganese Mn 25 0.27ppm AASIron Fe 26 38.9ppm AASCobalt Co 27 0.60ppm AASNickel Ni 28 0.13ppm AASCopper Cu 29 0.56ppm AASZinc Zn 30 2.38ppm AASGallium Ga 31 <0.001ppm FSKGermanium Ge 32 <0.001ppm FSKArsenic As 33 <0.01ppm AASSelenium Se 34 0.05ppm AASBromine Br 35 2.1ppm TXRFRubidium Rb 37 0.04ppm AASStrontium Sr 38 0.014g/kg AASYtterbium Y 39 <0.001ppm FSKZirconium Zr 40 <0.001ppm FSKNiobium Nb 41 <0.001ppm FSKMolybdenum Mo 42 0.01ppm AASTechnetium Tc 43 unstable artificial isotope – not includedRuthenium Ru 44 <0.001ppm FSKRhodium Rh 45 <0.001ppm FSKPalladium Pd 46 <0.001ppm FSKSilver Ag 47 0.031ppm AASCadmium Cd 48 <0.01ppm AASIndium In 49 <0.001ppm FSKTin Sn 50 <0.01ppm AASAntimony Sb 51 <0.01ppm AASTellurium Te 52 <0.001ppm FSKIodine I 53 <0.1g/kg potentiometrieCesium Cs 55 <0.001ppm FSKBarium Ba 56 1.96ppm AAS/TXRLanthan La 57 <0.001ppm FSKCerium Ce 58 <0.001ppm FSKPraseodynium Pr 59 <0.001ppm FSKNeodymium Nd 60 <0.001ppm FSKPromethium Pm 61 unstable artificial isotope – not includedSamarium Sm 62 <0.001ppm FSKEuropium Eu 63 <3.0ppm TXRFGadolinium Gd 64 <0.001ppm FSKTerbium Tb 65 <0.001ppm FSKDysprosium Dy 66 <4.0ppm TXRFHolmium Ho 67 <0.001ppm FSKErbium Er 68 <0.001ppm FSKThulium Tm 69 <0.001ppm FSKYtterbium Yb 70 <0.001ppm FSKLutetium Lu 71 <0.001ppm FSKHafnium Hf 72 <0.001ppm FSKTantalum Ta 73 1.1ppm TXRFWolfram W 74 <0.001ppm FSKRhenium Re 75 <2.5ppm TXRFOsmium Os 76 <0.001ppm FSKIridium Ir 77 <2.0ppm TXRFPlatinum Pt 78 0.47ppm TXRFGold Au 79 <1.0ppm TXRFMercury Hg 80 <0.03ppm AASThallium Ti 81 0.06ppm AASLead Pb 82 0.10ppm AASBismuth Bi 83 <0.10ppm AASPolonium Po 84 <0.001ppm FSKAstat At 85 <0.001ppm FSKFrancium Fr 87 <1.0ppm TXRFRadium Ra 88 <0.001ppm FSKActinium Ac 89 <0.001ppm FSKThorium Th 90 <0.001ppm FSKProtactinium Pa 91 <0.001ppm FSKUranium U 92 <0.001ppm FSKNeptunium Np 93 <0.001ppm FSKPlutonium Pu 94 <0.001ppm FSKADDITIONAL COMBINED ELEMENTS Water H2O 1.5g/kg DINAmmonium NH4+ 0.010ppm PhotometrieNitrate NO3- 0.09ppm PhotometriePhosphate PO43- <0.10ppm ICGHydrogencarbonate HCO3- <1.0g/kgTrevor, I guess thats what Fluoride does to the brain. Makes you think like a sheeple. Keep taking your prescription drugs.guestA friend of mine has been drinking the sole mixture for at least a year. I thought the idea was interesting, but I’d have to say I am skeptical about it. She has had all sorts of unusual health problems occur since then. I’m not saying that the salt mixture had anything to do with that, but I don’t see any evidence of any health benefits either. How can a miniscule amount of salt in water do much of anything?  I would like to see some research about the effect of Himalayan salt on indoor air quality. I just bought a candle holder made out of Himalayan salt. I don’t expect it to clean the air in my house, but it sure is pretty and relaxing to look at. Has anyone seen a legitimate study regarding this?How about You EXPERIENCE THE EFFECTS YOURSELF of The Pink Himalayan Salt Yourself, before you allow someone who obviously has not, to determine the well being of your Body Temple. It is not expensive, you can find great sources on ebay, and even if it was expensive, I’d rather spend whatever is necessary to keep the functionality of my Body Temple highly efficient with the best fuel I can give it, than to spend it on, let’s say petrol at the gas station, or the electricity to power the utilities in my house. You’re going to spend the money somewhere. You should prioritize and spend it on YourSelf. Unfortunately most American’s thinking is backwards, but We’re going to help You guys, help yourselves. <3 To All Who Know, Grow, and take time to share their Glow.Himalayan salt dissolves bone spurs, those nasty heel ones too.  Dissolve as much himalayan salt as possible into a jar of water, Keep this in the fridge and add a teaspoon of this a day to your drink bottle of water.I recently purchased “Old Thompson” brand Himalayan Pink Salt…Can anyone enlighten me on the quality of this salt?Come on, you people need to fess up.  It’s wrong to tell people things that are not true and take money from them based upon those things.  IF you’re really focused on health and wellness, quit lying to people and writing nonsense like “salt’s unique cellular structure.”  That’s just plain absurd.What’s absurd?Look up the word sarcasmNothing within THAT self-RIGHTEOUS speech “RADIATES love and wellness for our fellow brothers and sisters” my dear.Where did you see that?google armchair expert…. lol drclaw, go back to your inspector gadget cartoonsFunny how this troll never replies when he is asked to further expand on his “knowledge” which is according to the AMA anyway. Don’t you know doctorate qualifications were “doctored” back in the 17 – 1800’s…. the founding bodies decided they were going to teach what THEY thought they should ‘instill’ in people to become a doctor. They are only taught how to dispense pharmaceuticals, not health from nature / plants…. this is why everyone should absolutely distrust doctors. I mean, how many times have you heard from someone you know how they got false diagnoses from doctors?? How many doctors die from heart disease? They’re not exactly pillars of health, so their word means nothing to me. IF you are in reality a doctor, that is. The label MD to me means “mental disorder” referring to the extreme arrogance most medicos display when their ideas are challenged.Don’t worry about the troll. If he is in fact a doctor, he’s only worried about losing $$$ in the end. “You’re a number, not a name.”This guy seems to be the medico quack trying his best to discredit natural plant sourced foods. And probably replacing them with his recommendations of pills!!! hahahaha Paul you’re seriously an idiot. Come to my dinner party any day and we can discuss your flawed arguments to the end of time. You will not win. I will also confiscate your mobile phone and any other electronic device that allows you to google any answers you may wish to find when arguing with me. I rely on personal knowledge and experience for my own arguments, I prefer truths to lies and vested interests. So how about it. Take me up on my challenge? I dare you/.
This guy will likely die from high blood pressure or heart attack form his own  gangrenous ignorance. So mote it be! Natural selection: Nature’s way of insuring the future generations against defective DNA and defective minds! :)))the most well known word that starts with L is loser and thats what you are. A big fat loserErm… seriously, the guy was just being sarcasting!What a load of bollocks. This salt, like any other, is 98% sodium chloride with a few (10) other minerals “polluting” it. It is no better or worse than any other form of salt. The only benefit is to the seller.How did you leave your doctor speechless? You don’t say….
Do you realise your sodium levels can be perfectly ok, even if you don’t ingest any sodium chloride at all?
My sodium levels are fine on plant based organic salts of sodium, plus all the other minerals in them for the other SALTS.
The only reason I say this is because you are ingesting sodium chloride in Himalayan salt, not necessarily good for hypertension, and for good sodium levels you don’t need NaCl.NaCl is not needed for life. Sodium salts and chloride salts among others are needed for life, but not sodium chloride.
It is completely wrong to say it is essential for living.Table salt is worse by default if it contains the kind of anti caking agents that main stream medicine agrees after decades of use causes metabolic problems, also links to neurological diseases.You’ll be amazed at what is in plants in bound forms. All kinds of stuff like cyanide and arsenic, so don’t be surprised at what inorganic metals and minerals are in pink salt.I have just been told that I have an auto immune disease it is over active. can this help this thing.Mikael, could you please enlighten me re., the location/s in Malaysia [my friends’re in Kajang, Selangor]  where genuine Himalayan Pink Salt could be purchased? online sources too may be useful; we would acknowledge ,with information that you may fancy too ;forwarding info.,  via;  ;would be appreciated.thank you; blackdrragon Protection1;plz., see my post above; I have requested details re., location/s for purchase in Malaysia; if you get details re., same, forwarding same via ;arihant4@hotmail.com; would be appreciated, & acknowledged. please visit our page @ ;  ; & like it if you find it so. thank you.I suffer from severe hemapolygic migraines and nothing seems to work on me so recently a friend said to try himala salt it picked up the crystals  how should I mix this and with whatAbout a dozen of the elements in this salt are radioactive, among the heavy metals present are lead , mercury, arsenic, thallium, cadmium, polonium , etc.  Most of these elements are toxic to the human body and some are quite deadly such as thallium, polonium and I believe, thorium.  Many other elements are known to cause cancer such as flouride and the radioactive elements.  Google it to find out.  Check multiple sources.And dihydrogen monoxide is the most serious danger to public safety. ◔_◔Hello friend nowadays every dept.store can buy “himalayan Salt” I using from longtime.I think you are right.. 😀Sole is a drink made with Himalayan rock salt , Google it I do not take salt in my food ,then I read about Himalayan ,and now  I do sprinkle on my food and drink it distilled water not two much ,and found my heart palpitation have nearly stop ,this is the honest truth ,or I may have short of salt intakeBeing a doctor doesn’t mean you received your MD. There are lots of different types of doctors, and MD doesn’t follow his name. Sodium chloride, (NaCl) is is the same whether in “industrial” salt, (referred by this name in one of the comments), sea salt or himalayan salt.  There are differing concentrations of the active NaCl in the different types of salt, but the normal white, table salt we usually see is the purest. The article says that “salt is necessary but can be dangerous if taken in the chemical form”.  It is a chemical and cannot be taken in any other form.  Processing does not “turn it into sodium chloride” it already is, whether taken from under the city of Detroit, the Dead Sea, China, or Pakistan.  One comment (from vinkor) gives trace analysis of a sample of  Himalayan salt and shows presence of toxic heavy metals such as arsenic, antimony, bismuth, barium and beryllium. On the basis of these points about the claims in the article I would like to see some scientific studies concerning the possible positive and negative effects of the Himalayan salt.  The claims in the article and anecdotal claims from the commenters just don’t make a very good case.Common sence dictates that to much salt is in any form is dangerous.
some of you are a bunch of quacksYou’re absolutely right. If its organic or non-GMO or healthy, it’s going to be attacked. When you find an article or study discrediting something that is a natural, alternative to conventional “science,” check and see who is writing the article or book. It will tell you a lot. There is no money for big pharma or doctors in natural alternative medicine.Who are you to make the assumption that one is being self righteous especially via text , a medium which is often open to interpretation as to the context of whats been said unless of course its expressly stated. To me read like a sweet woman speaking positively, so perhaps since you came to such a negative conclusion should look inward and not cast your personal issues onto others. But perhaps I too am now being self righteous ?Jes, it’s not exactly the same, very similar perhaps but not the same. But as G.H.C said it’s your choice to stick with the processed iodine enriched stuff you call table salt. My only comment would be to look around and ask are people healthier?  Does mainstream science have your best interest in mind? Why is it your so angry? Try it for yourself I quite eating what people told me was safe or good and just listened to my body which instinctly had me eating, with out knowing it was trendy , a very paleo esk diet. Again Just listen your body speaks to you and it told me table salt is posion.Same studies and clinical trials that say GMOs are safe or fluoride in our drinking water or aspertine, and on and on until the scientific community has the peoples best interest in mind  not the corporations that fund them it would be of little value, I personally prefer to trust in my own innate ability to determine whether something is good or bad for me same ability we all have but it’s always easier to Google and believe others than to questions and explore for ourselves. We are all scientists as science is simply the expression of what is thought to be known and is forever changing as the collective conciusness evolves, but that’s not to say we can’t learn from each other just must be sure of the intentions of those we look to for clues.Who did the studies you refer to?All together a perfectly useless article.
Lots of information about what’s in table salt but nothing about what’s in Himalayan Salt.How’s sea salt any different?Can you tell me if great for Eczema?You know, this is exactly the kind of stuff that embarrasses me about being a part of the liberal and new age communities.  We’ve become a cliche.Pick a food or substance, reject its American version, “discover” a remote or jungle version overseas, put the location in front of the food’s name, bring it here, and suddenly it has magical health and “well-being” benefits – and costs 3000% higher.Oh new agers my fellow new agers.  Activating kundalini shouldn’t pop our brain cells out of our heads and into the garbage can, but seems it does.  With every asana we seem to get more and more naive.  This needs to stop, NOW.Somebody please define for me, scientifically, what “well-being” is, why we are all chasing it, why it takes eating or a bath to get it, and what “promotes” and “encourages” actually DO.I can’t take this anymore.  I’m certainly not going to become a Christian or conservative, but the Caucasian yoga and Whole Foods crowd have completely ruined universal awakening for me.  Perhaps it’s better to go back to sleep.  We’re awful people.  This is disgusting.Yeah, “magical salt”.Remember when it was Acai berries?  I CAN’T STAND THIS ANYMOREAccording to Dr. Wallach from Youngevity, The body needs salt for various functions. During the summer, when the weather is hot, your body uses salt for hydration. If your doctor tells you to reduce your salt intake, You need to find a naturalpathic doctor. Back in the late 90’s, there was a heat wave in Chicago. 175 people died from heat exhaustion because they were elderly and on a salt restricted diet. Their doctors never told them to increase they’re salt intake.
Think about this…The first thing a good farmer does is put salt blocks out for his cattle. SO just salt your food to taste and you’ll be fine.SO TRUE SWEDES THINK they are intelligent HA that’s why they are STUPID ,,,LOLI am into Natural remedies  and medicines and  I am Engish ( INTELLIGENT ) for  the Swedes out  there  🙂 living in Costa Rica a MODERN but charming world.Today the owner of my health store told me for my cold sneezing  to put Himalayan salt and a sqeeze of lemon  and it will cure my cold..I laughed when I saw it was $6 here  ( Of course imported  in small quantities )  but trust her and said I will,  as I always do check it out on the Internet,,Upon reading these remarks I WILL BE BUYING it instead os Kosher or Sea salt in future THANK you  all But ONE,,and the Swede ,,, I am a believer. People here  are to HELP not here to scam us,,
PS Is that  cynic  sellling TABLE SALT in her store ??? LOLThe statements in the text are not correct. Everything has vibrational energy. It is what we call “temperature”. And a colloid is a thin film  on a liquid surface, not something buried in a salt crystal. These are major mistakes that should not come from a “Dr.”Dr. Pan thinks so.  He obviously doesn’t know much about vaccines.The opposite is also true…there is BIG money in selling natural remedies too.They count on you buying from emotion. All salt is a chemical.Hello, Can you please tell me how much is too much? Per day? Many thanks.where can I purchase this product?.This salt looks pretty, but that’s the only benefit – 40ppm of iron oxide (rust). All minerals are naturally occurring. The unrefined ones can contain some nasty contaminants – in the case of Himalayan Salt – arsenic, lead, etc. Quantities are so low as to be of no significance. Enjoy the colour – anything else is imaginationWhy pay more for a bit of rust that makes it pink? That’s the only significant difference over normal table salt.It’s a scam. Himalayan Salt comes from Pakistan. It’s about 97% sodium chloride – much the same as table salt. 40 ppm of iron oxide (rust) gives it the pink colour. It contains traces of some nasty chemicals (eg arsenic, chromium, lead). Use it if you like, but don’t kid yourself that it’s any better than ordinary table salt. When you say you did your research, does that mean you listened to some guy, or are you like me – a chemical engineer, who has access to the full chemical analysis, and an understanding of the effects on the human body? If you are scientifically qualified, I’d be happy to debate at a scientific level.Wise decision – useless unless you want to pay a lot of money for a pretty colour caused by rust.I’d love someone to try to tell me that Himalayan Salt is organic. I kid you not, there are people who would actually claim this.FYI, Himalayan, table and sea salts are approximately 40% sodium and 60% chloride so when you figure sodium intake of 1500 to 2300 mg. of sodium, that’s a lot of salt, (between 3/4 and 1 teaspoon a day). So if you only get the salt you add to food, shake away. But if you , like most, buy processed foods then you might want to use a little caution. You could  easily get 80% of your Sodium from the processed foods leaving you with about 1/5 teaspoon (max) to put on your foods daily. At that rate I could hardly see much more than a placebo effect using Himalayan salt. At least you won’t go broke buying it though. Oh yeah, watch out for the radioactive radium, uranium,and polonium, and the poison thallium . Here is a pretty good read This ad contains so many scientific inaccuracies, distortions and utter nonsense it’s hard to know where to begin. Processing turns salt into sodium chloride? No, sodium chloride is the definition of table salt, and the principle dissolved component of our blood, necessary for human life. The implication that iodine id bad for you? Addition of iodine, required for proper function for the thyroid gland, to modern table salt has been a boon in preventing goiter.  Minerals in colloidal form are more readily absorbed? Colloids are particles not in solution, and for anything to be absorbed, it must be in solution. As for cellular hydroelectic energy production -what, our cells have little generators attached to them, producing electricity from the motion of water? Pure nuts. 84 minerals and elements found in the human body? More than that, actually -almost all, in some concentration. What are the proportions are those 84 substances in this product? Too high a concentration of many can be toxic. The list goes on. And on. This is pure snake oil huckster B$ preying on the scientifically unaware. Himalayan salt may be a fine product, but the deceptions put forth in this ad make a great case for avoiding it.The majority of pharmaceuticals are derived from plants. And of course the founding bodies would determine the curricula of their specialties. Who else should? Modern western medicine is probably responsible for you and half the people reading this being alive today.how is pink salt the same as table salt? It does not contain more sodium chloride go to trader joes Table salt is Chemically Engineered Just like You said Stripped from all the 86 minerals natrually from the earth. How can it be a scam when this salt has been used wayback in biblical/egyptian timesYou are right Trader Joes carries it So Does Target Stores and Believe it Or not Wal-mart and Costco if you want get them in larger thats when it gonna cost a bit more.over 86 minerals the body needs can imagine what a sole drink would do to your body “positive energy”Organic? LOL It From The Himalayas Where Mt Everest Is Pulled from Mother Nature In its purity without any chemical engineersthey also carry it at costco,target,and if want in large salt rock form in health stores or order onlinesodium is 380 miligrams on trader joes look at the nutrition facts on it there’s no sugar and no iodide/caking agents that Regular table salt has. as For the Drs and this article was published May 15, 2009 Today it’s March 2nd 2016 an I’m Sure alot of Peeps Are Benefitting On Pink Himalayan Salt What If It Was Renamed? “Mt.Everest Salt” You think that would detour anybody who wants lead a healthier life than havin idiots “scam” you for your hard earned money? it only cost $2 with a grinder now if you are wanting in bigger chunks that when it gonna cost a bit more.Wow, that’s a new one. It can’t be a scam because people have used it since biblical times.  What makes you think that minerals naturally occurring in the Earth are good for you? (Asbestos is a naturally occurring mineral – would you eat it?) They include arsenic, lead, mercury,  (poisons) and many radioactive materials (eg polonium, plutonium, uranium). Luckily, these are at low enough levels in Himalayan salt to not be a problem. There is significant iron which gives the colour. If you want better salt, get table salt containing iodine, which is a big plus. You’d do a lot better buying a banana and taking a bite.They try to pretend that it’s from the Himalayan mountains – its not. They give a list of 86 elements, but don’t mention that many are poisons or radioactive.As I said before, pay more and enjoy your pretty salt, but don’t kid yourself that it has any benefit over table salt. It’s a scam.Himalayan salt isn’t from the Himalayans. It’s mined in Pakistan.Hm Ok You’re Right that Pink Halite Salt Is Shipped In Pakistan I wikipedia it-the Composition of it though the 86 minerals which has been mentioned in several Discussions Like this-It’s a Major Fact that a Salt like this can live up to it’s claims despite the plutonium,uranium,mercury,lead,arsenic(RadioActive Poisons) wouldn’t You Think The Fda Or Government Regulate The Sale Of This To Other Countries?Sole is disolving a Pink Halite Rock After You Smash it You Drop it in a Glass or Bottle Over Night it dissolves into your purified water and you drink it just like if it was a coffee/tea-some peeps claim it will detoxify your body giving you electrolites since this type of salt has been hooked up to electrodes in water lighting a light bulb it neutralizes and gives you all 86 minerals mentioned but some peeps here say the name alone “Pink Himalayan” isn’t from the Himalayan Mountains that it from Pakistan..If you go all the way back in salt history this salt was used by the roman/egyptian empire.Pink Himalayan Salt Should Be Renamed to “Pakistinian Halite Salt” What You’re saying is with them low level earth mineral elements arsenic,lead,plutonium,iron(rust) making the pink color that this salt would be like regular table salt but without the iodide caking agent cooked at 1000 degrees f.duh it no wonder salt industrialization is whacked out-if there really is a salt of the earth that is very good for you(although many out there do say “salt is a killer”) is there actual proof that it can improve memory loss, help with fatigued/stressed out people, helps prevent cancer…among other natrual wonders why hasnt this salt been put commercially on shelves.Regular Table Salt Contains Sugar Pink Salt Doesn’t! Have You Even Tried The Pink Salt Rhjames? you can find it at trader joes if your in the United States, Costco Sell it in Grinder too if want get in the Large Halite Form where you want break it up yourself then would have to order it online and You got be careful where getting it from cause there are scam artists out there tryin to make $ it has to be legitimate but yes it may be a bit more since in another country it depends on whos selling the Real Himalayan Pink Halite SaltA friend gave me some as a present. I have tried it. It’s just salt – nothing special. Pretty colour. That’s all it is – pretty salt.  Nothing worth spending extra money on. As I said, you’ll get more health benefits from one thin slice of a banana.Himalayan Crystal Salt Research conducted at the Inter-University of Graz, AustriaHimalayan Crystal SaltYour body recognizes and accepts it as a source of pure energy rather than a harmful substance.Every human body reacts to the HIGH QUALITY ENERGY of Original Himalayan Crystal Salt exactly the same way. The ENERGY contained in our salt brings your body’s regulatory system (homeostasis) into balance. A balanced homeostasis means everything is NORMAL. Normal organ functions, Normal blood pH, Normal digestive system functions, Normal brain activity, Normal respiration, and it also helps remove heavy metals from your body.There are no thoughts, no actions, no LIFE, without salt in your body.Every function of your body absolutely relies on SALT. Your body is craving the exact salt of which you are made. Remember – the higher quality of ENERGY you put into your body – the higher quality of your LIFE. PERIOD!Salt is the transmitter and conductor of all electrical activity (Energy) in your body.With Himalayan Crystal Salt, you won’t suffer the effects of edema (water retention), because your body will no longer need to sacrifice its own precious cell water as a means of protecting your organs from the damages of the poisonous sodium found in most processed and chemically refined salts, including sea salts.As a matter of fact, results of a comprehensive double-blind scientific study with The Original Himalayan Crystal Salt conducted at the Inter-University of Graz, Austria, demonstrated that the patients in the study who used Original Himalayan Crystal Salt “saw significant positive changes in respiratory, circulatory, organ, connective tissue and nervous system functions.”Increases in the Quality of SleepIncreased Energy and Concentration LevelsIncreased Brain ActivityWeight LossEnhanced ConsciousnessNoticeable Hair and Nail GrowthMany people experienced even more benefits, such as greater peace of mind, and a sense of “connectedness” that has been previously lacking or diminished in their life.What I’d Like to know is With The Pink salt Although P.Iodide is not in it Nor Dextrose (sugar) could this salt be dangerous to drink doing a “sole” there must be a certain intake our bodies can take with the pink salt but how much is required to use in a day? What happens if You Get The Pink Salt in a shaker and you sprinkle it inside a glass of water you blend it and it dissolved faster and drink it can you drink alot of it or just only one tablespoon per day?Yes but when you sprinkle a bunch of table salt into a bowl of soup or even a can of spaghetios bout an hour later your heading to the bathroom with diareah. so what your saying is if I even put two tablespoons pink salt into a glass of water ran it thru my blender I wouldn’t get the runs? lolHave you considered that it is the processed foods you’re eating that are the problem, not the table salt? Spaghetti O’s are not exactly healthy and, frankly, if you’re adding salt you’re really eating unhealthy considering the salt content of a can of the stuff.Live up to what claims? The whole point you’re missing here is that the mineral content is irrelevant. The minerals contained in the salt are in such minuscule quantities that they’re negligible. Take magnesium for example, the daily value for magnesium for an adult male is ~410mg/day, magnesium is contained in himalayan salt at a concentration of 0.16g/kg or 160mg/kg. To get the recommended daily value of magnesium from Himalayan salt, as an adult male, I would need to eat more than 2.5kg of the salt! TWO AND A HALF KILOGRAMS. I’d die from all of the sodium chloride intake.Not only can you make a sole you can sprinkle this pink rock salt seasoning on a lot of foods not just on meats! Try it on a peanut butter and jelly sandwich yes peanut butter contains salt so does jelly we go to the movie theatres not aware how much salt intake we do but yes in the butter there’s salt in the popcorn oil is salt so your puting salt on top of more salt regardless if you change the seasoning esp if it Cracker Jack style cheese or that white sugary corn.Too much salt intake you would think pink salt would you in the hospital but according to all the elements our body requires all them pink salt may taste a bit stronger but it the lowest against all salts-it’s 100% safe to add to your juice drinks with ice in blender it a rock salt so think Ice cream-Margaritta Salt we don’t get Ill from that add to your sweetened tea or unsweetened add to your oatmeal that may sound yucky to some but it works! It helps with my sleep too!You’d die more from normal Norton salt intake because that’s the type of salt they put inside a can of raviolies, spaghettios, look at people who snack on dorritos them chips are loaded with iodised overheated salt the caking agents calcium silicate there is no minerals at all in Norton iodised salt Himalayan salt the history on it is true that it been around since the big bang it hasn’t been touched by our polluted oily waters.Pink Himalayan salt despite its pink color is a halite rock salt.Some peeps enjoy drinking bloody Mary’s/margaritas and they haven’t died from too much salt intake.The prob lies within reg. Table salt which making peeps diabetic why? There’s sugar inside normal table salt and if you also ran tests on iodised sea salt you will also find sugar in there too. Why would pink salt not contain any sugar? Why would pink salt have all these claimed minerals that you said are minuscule your right why would there be a salt that contains higher minerals you want more magnesium you need to drink some more milk then again other peeps may say milk is bad for you too cause that also contains both salt and sugar!My head hurts just from trying to wrap my head around what you just said. Run on sentences for days. The fact is that there is a scientific process called spectral analysis by which the exact composition of a sample can be determined. Using this process you can measure the actual content of sodium chloride, magnesium, and every other mineral included in that salt. The whole point you’re willfully choosing to miss is that the amounts of those minerals are so tiny that they don’t matter with regards to your overall health. The only somewhat valid point you’ve made here relates to the pollution potential of sea salt harvested from polluted water, but even there we’re talking about extremely minute (that’s minute, as in tiny, not minute, as in ‘I’ll be there in a minute’) quantities. Please educate yourself rather than simply parroting concepts that sound good that support the fantasy that pink halite salt is some miracle substance.Hey Jon have you actually tried this salt yourself? Yes we all understand that in a spectral analysis they are minute meaning that salt is not a multivitamin for many centuries if you can go all the way back on the history of salt the chemicals potassium iodide and the anticaking agents calcium silicate were not added in salt we know today (table salt) plutonium iron silver gold ain’t gonna kill ya ha ha your head won’t hurt after you try this salt.What you are saying is this entire website is all a lie just to take your money.No you won’t die from sprinkling pink salt on a peanut butter and jelly sandwich even if you bought it in larger quantities like some peeps in this forum have done already making a sole drink instead drinking dangerous Gatorade for electrolytes it contains a shitload of sugar and salt while pink salt does not contain any sugar do a spectral analysis yourself plus there already is iodine in it naturally minus no caking agents silica sand(calcium silicate)What I am saying is that you’re a gullible person who is taking a claim made by somebody claiming to be a doctor that this salt is somehow beneficial as gospel without doing any critical thinking of your own. My head hurts because you’re just parroting stuff without thinking about the actual meaning of what you’re saying. The 86 minerals aren’t a positive aspect of this salt if they don’t do anything meaningful. If, IF, there were some causal relationship between the anti-caking agents and some kind of illness that could be reasonably demonstrated, that might be cause for not using iodized salt, but so far it’s just a whole lot of “this is bad because it doesn’t occur this way naturally”. The reason they add anti-caking agents to the salt is so that the moisture in the air doesn’t cause the salt to turn into one giant clump, this is necessary due to the fine ground nature of the salt in question. Big ol’ chunks of salt don’t have this issue and therefore can be sold without such an addition. Iodine, on the other had, is added to the salt as a very successful health initiative designed to prevent iodine deficiency, a benefit, not a detriment!Ok What’s The Difference Between Pink salt, Celtic, and REAL SALT that says there’s alot Minerals in It?Weather it’s Real Salt, Celtic Salt, Himalayan Salt correct on the earth elements/minerals are minuscle but these salts are far more healthier than Regular Norton Or Other Cheap Iodised Salt What has been mentioned many times is with table salt yes it is from the sea “sea salt” but in the normal table salt that we sprinkle on our foods today even says on the label Iodide does not have no nutritional value but if you go investigate you will see in that list of minerals it has natrual iodide every one of these salts do.The prob with Reg table salt why it considered deadly is because they don’t want tell you there’s sugar in it.Go buy a Pink Himalayan Salt at trader joes theres no Sugar!My names is Dr. K. Hasti, and I am a Neurologist at MAX HEALTHCARE CENTER, Our Hospital specializes on Kidney Surgery and we also deal on transplantation of kidneys with a living an corresponding donor. We are located in India.Kindly contact me if you are willing to sell or buy kidney via email;
 or 
Tel: +91 7411065240Salt doesn’t change chemical composition.  Salt is sodium chloride.  It is a necessary mineral.  Too much of salt can cause health problems.    If you want trace minerals, take a vitamin pill.Yes, these fools are wasting their money on colored pink salt.  I can think of many other more fun things to waste money on.It originates in Pakistan.Strange logic. How will eating salt with a bit of rust change anything?Just the same as ordinary table salt does.Yes, it’s exactly the same.It’s all much the same – just buy the cheapest.ok so you are telling all of us that we should be sprinkling deadly iodised table salt that contains no minerals at all despite that it has been cooked at extremely high temperature, bleached and added chemicals over a salt that has been around since egptian/roman times, even celtic salt has been around longer what about Real Salt? I’m not being ignorant…Dextrose has been added which in the process is sugar! So you tell me why our planet is so obese, you tell me why there so many hyperactive a.d.d./a.d.h.d how about those who have learning disabilities like forrest gump autistic children or how about those who are above that being bipolar….it’s the bad salt thats the problem you want cement dirt in your salt go on ahead.no you would not die from unrefined salt intake weather its celtic, himalayan, real salt. You can’t get magnesium from Morton Iodised Salt because it’s stripped along with the other minerals. do a spectral analysis on reg table salt you will not see any of these minerals other than calcium silicate, dextrose and aluminum chloride which are toxic chemicalsno duh! They pack it up with sugar which also in table salt called dextrose.so whats the harmful ingrediants in himalayan salt, whats the harmful inggrediants in celtic salt, what’s the harmful ingrediants in Real Salt?  sodium chloride? I understand the basic chemistry but adding Sugar to Salt-there’s no nutritional value whatsoever on morton’s iodised salt or there iodised sea salt why? because it was stripped of its 86 minerals by heating it at 2000 degree temperature,bleached and many other unnecessary chemicals to kill the contaminated industrialized polluted salt water from the ocean.there’s more chemicals in gatorade itself, yes there’s loads of sugar but that’s not healthy refined sugar take a look at all the soda pop they make they add sugar and salt to it. keep drinking dr pepper for example you will eventually get stones become diabetic both sugar and bad salt intake isn’t good for all of us.Just a Reminder The Doctor Made This Video Himself So You Be The Judge On What Salt You Want To Sprinkle Celtic, Pink Himalayan, Real Salt there not Deadly Salts As Your Normal Table Salt Is! Goodday everyone we the global hospital are in need of kidney right now,we urge you to be a donor and there is total sum of money that will be given to you…the sum of $500,000 contact us via email  .Thanks for your donation,,,note that good readers should knpw that without the NKF this surgery cannot be carried out and you should know that the NKF exist.people use this means to trick others be wise!!!!!!!!!This was almost a good article until you had to throw in the “250 million years old” story. If the earth was that old then we wouldn’t even have mountains because, at the rate of erosion, they all should have eroded flat over 7 times over. Besides that, if the salt is really that old then why do the bottles come with expiry dates?Some of those 84 natural minerals are poison and with radiation like uranium why would you put that in your body?Dear Sir /Madam,Do you want to sell your kidney for MONEY: we are currently in need of men and female donors for O+ve and A+ ve kidney donor. If anyone is willing to donate kidney please contact us immediately and we shall offer you (1 croe 40 lark) or $220,000.00 USD for your Kidney. Kindly send us email via(hopeluwissmanagingdirector@gmail.com) Phone: +919036544097Dr Hope luwissre:  Marie’s post:  My youngest son had very serious eczema, that would cover most of his body. He started spraying Sole onto the skin and found that it worked wonders. He also started drinking the salt concentrate. He now refuses to ever be without it, his sinus problems cleared up, more energy, wonderful improvement of his skin, weight loss. It truly is a remarkable product. I have also switched over and no longer use sea salt for cooking, and sprinkling onto dishes.Would like to see the scientific journals supporting this pile of claims all most of which are generic enough to be used with any salt.  Although I don’t use it very much, nothing has done more to help people through the man made use of salts,  than good old iodized table salt.  Not only has it prevented many from horrible thyroid diseases, but worldwide, iodine deficiency affects about two billion people and is the leading preventable cause of intellectual and developmental disabilities.  A simple fortified salt with added iodine could prevent all this.   I would like to see some comparable data on the any other salt.Hi Abderrazak,  I too have osteoarthritis and Rheumatoid arthritis,  I did read pink rock Salk can help, so I guess the only way to find out is for us to change our salt. Good luck to your mum x“Controlling the water levels within the body, regulating them for proper functioning” – yes, in a bad way if used in excess. Salt is usually bad for cardiac patients, patients with kidney disease. As a doctor I recommend listening to national guidelines. If you have a disease please consult with your doctor about the amount of salt you need. If you are healthy please use the recommended daily dose values for healthy men/women, age, etc.After 6 years, how is you son?himalayan salt is also mainly sodium chloride similar to common table salt. so if sodium chloride in common table salt is treated as poison, the main component of himalayan salt will also be treated as poison by the body.This type of salt?? Are you serious? salt is salt is salt the only thing that is different about himalayan salt is it attracts those that want to believe in anythingyes but what they do with regular table salt is they heat it at high temperature anti caking agents contain dextrose which is sugar and sugar leads to many diseases including cancer. All I was Saying is Unrefined Salt Weather it’s named Real Salt, Pink Himalayan Salt, they aren’t tinkered with and Chemically Bleached if you want regular salt go for it. they do same process on sea salt as well too killing of all them claimed 86 minerals You can’t make a sole with Morton Table Salt. Here’s a good example of having too much salt Movie theatre popcorn is loaded with salt + sugar esp if you have the other flavorings like kettle corn, caramel, cheese…in the canola oil itself is more saltJarrod Newton your life must be really sad. You literally come back to this same exact site months and months after everybody else has stopped caring and comment again parroting the same bullshit without ever considering that you’ve been sold a bill of goods. You just repeat the same things over and over again. It’s really pathetic. I stopped caring about you and this conversation (if you can call it that) 9 months ago when it died, don’t you have something productive you could be doing instead of flooding people’s inboxes months later?Then when are you replying now?What you don’t see because @disqus_g4rqWbCz9V:disqus deleted it was that he responded to my post from 10 months ago (which was itself a response to him) 22 days ago, thus pinging my mailbox as you did today.Your disgusting, your awful. Sounds like the rantings of a clinically depressed unhappy person. We’re happy intelligent people. Even placebos work if you believe in them. Do a self study, if your so interested. Or just let it go. What’s the point?Maybe you should do your research before calling out names…First, if it’s colored salt, it is not Himalayan Salt…Second, because of the mining process, thousands of feet deep in the earth, there are no pollutants and no added chemicals. If you had a shed of intelligence, you would know just these basic facts. I refuse to do your work for you to tell you the dozens of other facts about Himalayan Salt. Maybe you might just do your brain a favor, and read the studies for your self..Good luck!!..and another person who does not have a clue, because they refuse to do any research on the subject..I bet you don’t even know that Sea Salt is now polluted, but that would be common sense, for which you seem to lack, only because you spout out words on subjects, you know nothing about…Mark!!Hey look if it helps you get through your life and feel better about yourself by believing something stupid who am I to get in the way. I have my own little superstitions myself. I was thinking I bet this person is an american, checked your profile and weyho we have a winner. Godamn and you guys wonder why the rest of the world looks at you with ridicule. Have fun with your “special” sodium chloride. No really its going to make you prettier and cure your athritis. No seriously it is. Im not even joking here, you should spread it round your crystals hanging around your bed. Hahah MuppetWhat about people who suffer from High Blood Pressure can they benefit from Himalayan Salt?How much actual mg of salt does Dr. Group recommend?You are truly fucking retarded. Himalayan salt contains plutonium. Hardly fucking healthy. And without iodine you’re going to die an early death. Your site is pure garbage. Hi, Matthew. We’ll be happy to help. Generally,
people do well with a minimum of 500 mg of sodium daily, which equates to about 1/4 teaspoon of Himalayan Salt. More may be taken at your discretion, however, this is a great starting point. It’s usually best to take no more the 2,500 mg daily, but this can always vary based on your needs. Feel free to let us know if you need anything else.Excellent. Thank you!SO THEN WHAT SALT IS BETTER?? CAUSE ALL I AM READING ON HERE IS A LOT OF HATE, SOME ARE ACTUALLY GIVE SANE ADVICE, THE REST SEEMS LIKE THEY READY TO DEBATE IS AIR IS REAL??  FOR THE PPL THAT COMES TO GET REAL INFORMATION ON THIS??? I KNOW ITS MORE NATURAL AND ORGANIC THAN TABLE  MAN MADE MANUFACTURED SALT.. SUCH AS MORTON’S… AND AS AND ENGINEER, WHAT ARE YOU GUYS TO MAKE IT MORE HEALTHIER BENEFICIAL??? THAT DID NOT COME OUT RIGHT, BUT BY YOU BEING AND ENGINEER, IT WILL BE A GOOD GIGGLE FOR YOU… SMILE… NOW LAUGHTER IS GOOD FOR THE SOUL… GIGGLINGMore organic? Any salt is totally inorganic!!! It contains no carbon. It doesn’t matter where it comes from, or how it’s made. It’s sodium chloride. Have it with or without insignificant contaminants. Pay more or less. Essentially it’s all the same.They’re paid trolls attacking it. All the industries are using this tactic now, paying people to post nonsense. To make your beard look more manly, S-Amden & Company has come up with the perfect solution. For the first time, Buy Beard Oil Pakistan to give your beard a more healthy look, and to make it look pleasing to others. Made up of a fine blend of essential oils, it is without a shadow of a doubt the Best Oil For Beard Pakistan.Because it’s millions of years old and has sat untouched, many people believe that Himalayan crystal salt is a better option than standard table salt, which may contain toxins and pollutants.[1]“striking pink color which comes from the natural presence of several trace minerals” – in other words; impurities. standard table salt is pure NaCl.Its pink BECAUSE of the impurities. Pure NaCl is whiteLike Harold Shipman?Don’t shoutOrganic – like rattlesnake venom?I rather think its the people who blindly believe anything they are told to believe by “alternative” websites intent of making  a buck our of advertising clicks or selling something themselves,  who are the sheep.“Contains 84 essential minerals required by the human body” – What minerals and how big an overdose of salt would you need to consume before you got any meaningful content of even one of those essential minerals?
“85%sodium chloride, 15% trace minerals” Which minerals?. How is this claim substantially different from the first claim?
“Good source of magnesium, in which 80% of all individuals are deficient” How big an overdose of salt would you need to consume
before you got any meaningful content of magnesium? How is this claim substantially different from the first claim?
“Promotes healthy pH balance of the cells” Really? How?
“Regulates the body’s natural sleep cycle” Really? How?Think what you want. I have no time for stupidity or people too lazy to do research..BYE!!So what colour IS pure C12 H22 O11? I note the article itself says – wait for it – “Himalayan crystal salt, is a type of rock salt best known for its
striking pink color which COMES
FROM THE NATURAL PRESENCE OF SEVERAL TRACE MINERALS”So, thanks to the article we establish that HRS is, in fact,  impure NaCl. Think what you want. I have no time for stupidity or people too lazy to do anything other than blindly believe what they are told to believe.Oh boy, you are really misinformed. Sugar or as you put it, C12 H22 O11, is brown!! You do know, sugar comes from Sugar Cane?? Who said Himalayan Salt did not have other minerals?? I didn’t…You said it was pink from IMPURITIES!! Not Minerals!!! From that statement one can only conclude you have not researched. I already have known that for years. Hate to tell you this, but there are other minerals in all salt!! Last time I checked, the human body also needs MINERALS!!! Funny thing though, why would it bother someone so much, if there was something that helped people?? Now that is the question!!! Bored day?? Lonely life?? Sucks to be you!!!Well personally I’m not a big salt lover…I just decided to try this Himalayan salt. And it taste a hundred percent better than regular table salt. Never liked salt before trying this. It’s good!My name is Dr. Gourdas Choudhuri. Am a Phrenologist in Fortis Super Hospital. Our Hospital is specialized in Kidney Surgeries and we also deal with Buying and Transplantation of kidneys with a corresponding Donor. We are Located in Indian, UK, Malaysia, and America. If you are interested in Selling or Buying Kidney’s please don’t hesitate to Contact Us Via email: email:  for more info. Regard
Fortis HospitalHello everybody. Please do you like to sell one of your kidney for money? or do you want to buy kidney, are you looking for an opportunity to sell your kidney for financial reasons. We buy healthy kidneys for a juicy price of $600,000.00, kindly contact us today at (info_fhki@consultant.com) and we would be obliged to help you with any assistance required of us with immediate effect.Regard
Fortis HospitalFortis Hospital & Kidney Institute (FHKI), is the first of  kind medical center for renal care in East India. We are currently seeking genuine kidney donations. Genuine donors should please contact the office of the chief consultant. Email: , Phone: +918546997762.Dear Friends,I am having a doubt regarding the benefits of himalayan salt..?I read one forward message in Whatsapp.. In that message they mentioned that  this himalayan salt will cure the kidney problems and also  no need to do dialysis if the creatinine level is more than the required level in the body ..Is it true ???Pls give the suggestions on this  Waiting for your valuable  suggestions Thanks ,
Rajeshwrong. dorkHimalayan salt is rock salt or halite from the Punjab region of Pakistan. No scientific evidence has been provided to prove that Himalayan salt has substantial benefits compared to common salt, thus such claims should be treated as pseudoscience.Hello my name is Thomas Karol , my husband was suffering from liver cancer, and the doctor’s told me that there is nothing  they could do to save my beloved husband life. Then a friend told me about hemp oil , i told her that my husband liver cancer was in the last stage that i don’t think the hemp oil will be able to help, and she persuaded me to try, for the love of my husband, i decided to give it a try. I did some research and i found a doctor who helped me with the cannabis oil to cure my husband liver cancer and he assured me that after 3 months the liver cancer will be gone, and For the past one year my husband is perfectly okay and he is free from cancer, if you know any one who is suffering from cancer you can save his/her life by contacting Dr. Brown Nelson via his email : (brownnelson07@aol.com) it worked exactly as the doctor prescribed. Thanks to Dr. Brown Nelson  for taking away sorrow in my life. God will bless Dr. Brown Nelson  for helping me with cannabis oil and for his support and care, i will keep on help you to fight cancer in the World, all i have to say is THANK YOU LORD.Dear Sir /Madam,
My name is Dr.Daniel Wallace. Am a Phrenologist in Apollo Hospital. Our Hospital is specialized in Kidney Surgeries and we also deal with Buying and Transplantation of kidneys with a corresponding Donor. We are Located in Indian, and Malaysia. If you are interested in Selling Kidney’s for the sum of ($400,000.00 USD) please don’t hesitate to Contact Us
Via email: 
Tell:+919643087917Best regards,
Dr Daniel Wallace
Apollo Hospital