       Glutamate is a natural amino acid found in foods containing protein, like milk, mushrooms and fish. Monosodium glutamate (MSG), manufactured with only the sodium salt of glutamate, is designed to be a flavor enhancer and is found in many foods. However, clever labeling practices and deceptions serve to camouflage its presence.          Consider the claim “no added MSG.” This claim means that there was no MSG poured into the product—even if it was processed into the product. This is the practice of the glutamate industry and the food producers who use MSG. Why Do This? It’s simple: it keeps the money coming in and they don’t have to change their formula.  Consider these MSG facts:The glutamate industry is fully aware of the harmful effects of MSG, that it is a toxic substance. They know that ingesting their toxin can cause diabetes, adrenal gland malfunction, seizures, high blood pressure, excessive weight gain, stroke and other health problems. If you eat MSG and experience any of these conditions, then you need to immediately eliminate MSG from your diet.
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.I came here because I believe MSG to be fine for consumption but I’m not stupid enough to believe even myself without researching facts. I came here hoping to find some kind of substance to the argument that MSG is harmful. Your first bullet points all killed any hope I had of that. Since the introduction, in the past 30 years, the incidence of Type II Diabetes has doubled.
Video games, the Internet and energy drinks among millions of other things have been introduced that all affect diabetes in humans. This is a coincidental link unsubstantiated and baseless.Obesity in children has skyrocketed! Again, baseless. Show a link. Obesity in children has skyrocketed since Spongebob!! Just as valid a statement and just as substantiated.MSG is injected into lab animals to induce obesity so that pharmaceutical companies can test their drugs. In what quantities? I’m sure it is in higher doses than any human being would ever ingest. If they gut loaded the rats with gallons of pudding every day to make them obese and the pudding killed them this point would be JUST as valid. Whether lab rat or human anything is bad when we test to see how much is too much. That should be obvious to you. I want someone to prove to me its bad for me if it is. I don’t want to use it if I’m hurting myself or my child. But I haven’t seen anything to prove that it is actually bad for you unless you consume 5 cups a day.Hi Austin,I’m sorry the article upset you. I would encourage you to take a look at this website, it covers this subject a little more in depth than what I [maybe should have] touched on--Dr. Edward Groupthanks for sharing another good news!Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()thank you Austin4x for writing my exact thoughts down! I did have a few other “MSG facts” that the author might want to consider: earth’s population has increased by several billions (maybe a fertility link?) and the sea water temperature has risen by several degrees (maybe it’s not CO2 but MSG to blame for global warming?)I thought the anti HFCS lobby was blaming HFCS for (childhood) obesity? Or maybe it’s the fact that average calories intake has almost doubled in the last decades? Average American eats up to 3800 kcal per day! And kids are not much better…Pingback: ()I am in the Philppines now visiting, can’t avoid MSG…..I often get the headaches, I sweat, & have little welts w/itching.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()You provide a link that any crackpot can make.  I looked at it for a laugh.  The link about diabetes within did not prove or point to MSG be the cause.  Also I read the article about the mouse trials. “Treatment of neonatal mice with large, repeated doses of monosodium L-glutamate (MSG)”LARGE REPEATED DOSES. yes I’m sure if you injected a mouse with “large repeated” doses of aspirin it would kill them as well. The amount that is put in to food it minute and any more than a half a teaspoon per pound of meat destroys the flavour.  What kind of doctor are you?   You point to made up web pages instead of medical journals.  You sir need your degree revoked.  This is all stupid.
Weve been using msg since i was born and here I am still alive without any of those illness that youve been blah blah blah aboout.
Are you really a doctor?Pingback: ()Great info! So grateful.Everyone knows, but the doer is the difference. Everyone knows smoking or alcohol  is bad, exercise is good etc.It’s hard to change the lifestyle of discipline. Not because they are stupid. They are just stubborn. That’s their choice and I wish them goodluck. Awesome article!!!!It’s sad, people are conditioned to believe what they want to.I so agree. How many people know and actually do of what they know? Of course they know! How many people exercise is healthy? How about eating healthy? Almost everyone as internet is everywhere and cheap even in the 3rd world as Facebook goes viral. Even Facebook post health info..:If they don’t want to. Leave them alone. It’s their body after all. Your job is to inform.Well done ??, great info. Awesome ? Pingback: ()Pingback: ()I know you did not ask me , but according to the old adage ” the proof is in the pudding ” actually no one , in my opinion , can prove that MSG is harmful to one’s health , but I can tell you that it is , because it is a neuro-toxin .it affects everybody to some degree , it certainly affects me , one thing it causes is night time leg cramps in older people . now I don’t know if it causes type two diabetes , because I believe that ” HFCS ” is the culprit for that .but I do know that MSG causes extreme nervousness in some people .What a moron…talk about double standard…this guy says no valid proof then blames video games and spongebob for obesity and diabetes.  Everyone with a brain knows that MSG is pure poison.  Do you actually go out into the world, or do you just force feed your brain pure media propaganda?