
The findings of a 2006 study carried out by medical researchers at Virginia Commonwealth University’s Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology in Richmond are being noticed within the scientific community . The study results strongly suggest that if taken regularly, cannabis oil may be able to induce remission in leukemia patients without the horrendous side effects typically associated with standard radio-chemical treatment options. Although this is only one such study, other similar studies have shown equally impressive results .  A few years ago, a team of experts convened in Germany to assess the total sum of information currently available regarding medical marijuana. According to their records, at least 37 separate controlled studies were carried out, internationally, between 2005-2009 . Altogether, more than 2,500 documented test subjects have participated in these various studies with few to no negative side effects reported. Not only are these findings unusual for drug studies for their overall lack of adverse patient reaction, but also the sheer number of individual participants involved. While 2,500 people may not sound like an especially large sample population, it’s actually much larger than the number typically required by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to determine whether or not most  are safe for use in humans. Many of the -derived drugs show exceptional promise in treating some of the greatest hurdles facing modern medical science. In addition to their aforementioned capacity for safely treating certain forms of deadly cancer, they also show great promise in alleviating autoimmune conditions such as rheumatoid arthritis, multiple sclerosis, and even inflammatory bowel disease. A growing number of experts also note their possible viability treating a range of neurological disorders including  and Lou Gehrig’s disease. Perhaps most indicative of the diminishing stigma surrounding medical marijuana research in the United States was a 2009 decision by the American Medical Association to finally, for the first time in the organization’s history, review marijuana’s classification as a schedule I controlled substance – meaning it has no medical value whatsoever, and is addictively on par with heroin – in an effort to hopefully remove one of the greatest impediments to its widespread medical use. What are your thoughts on the medical use of cannabis in conjunction with therapies for cancer and other diseases? Lets discuss in the comments below!
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.Where can one purchase the cannabis product?ThanksI wish the dispensaries sold juice.  I don’t want to smoke or eat their treats. Also, it seems like raw is stronger and can help more.
From From Washington Post, Tue, 01 Jun 2010
Republished by preventdisease.com
“Why raw? Heat destroys certain enzymes and nutrients in plants. Incorporating raw cannabis allows for a greater availability of those elements. Those who require large amounts of cannabinoids without the psychoactive effects need to look no further than raw cannabis. In this capacity, it can be used at 60 times more tolerance than if it were heated.”“As it is, within the natural makeup of a raw cannabis plant, THC exists in two varieties: THC and THC-A. Once the plant is cured and heated, components of the THC-A change. While this change creates an overall higher THC potency, it also decreases the available amino acids and other cannabanoid compounds, like CBD and CBN.”“What has happened is, almost all strains available in America through the black market are THC concentrates,” said Ethan Russo, a Seattle area physician who is senior medical adviser to GW Pharma. “The CBD in almost all cases has been bred out. The reason, cannabis in this country has been cultivated for its intoxicating effect.”Frank, you need a prescription.
Raw juice? how would one go about making this? Are you suggesting juicing the leaves or flowers, in a vegetable juicer? I’ve never heard of this before and am curious.Hi Janet,You may want to investigate vaporizers. These devices heat the plant material, releasing the beneficial compounds without combustion. It is a far more pleasant method of delivery and so long as one uses a high quality vaporizer, very safe. Many people like the Magic Flight Launch Box, available online. There are many helpful fora on the internet dedicated to the art and science of vaporizing.So it does work or not?Juice? do they mean extracted cannabis oil? Any way another advance in science, its not just cannabis scientists are looking into which have medicinal value, apparently also looking into flowers which grow in the Himalaya’s  which need looking into.Shame cannabis is so controversial though its been demonized for too long because of the reefer madness lies governments tell. Confusing and scaring parents and misinformed people. Its wrong,  Let be clear no drug is good for you if abused, caffeine, alcohol  and tobacco. But cannabis is much much safer than those drugs so lets wake up and realize its mostly lies and propagandaYou need a ‘Wheat Grass Juicer” not just a juicer. There is a site where Kristen Courtney discusses what she does that was in the New Settler Magazine. It is from  a few years ago now.  VVWhat you would need to make it at home is ‘fresh product’ Dr. Courtney says 3 or 4 buds is best, you can use just raw leave if you can not get fresh bud. The Mrs. mixes other things like a pear or apple, maybe a carrot etc. to break that green taste. When she first started juicing it was just leaf. VVThanks. Don’t have a place to grow it, if I had the ability.Thanks. I wish I knew which properties were being released in the vapors.Can’t find the New Settler Magazine online.  heres a video about raw useTo get the cancer curing effects, you need to use cannabis oil.  It is extracted from the bud (flowers).  Click on the link above where it says Rick Simpson’s Cancer Cure here.  It will take you to the video that shows how to make it.  It really works.  Check out Cash Hyde…he’s the little boy that had brain cancer.  Just google cannabis cures cancer.  Go to youtube and watch RUN FROM THE CURE.  The government has known since 1974…cancer is a money-maker for the pharmaceutical industry.Juicing raw cannabis is also great for you and has many healthy benefits but do not mistke cannabis juice for cannabis oil.does cannabis cure cancer when you smoke it raw? If you have Prostrate Cancer for example you can’t put the oil on your Prostate, can you?Thank you for your post!  Smoking cannabis has been known to help cancer patients, who normally couldnt eat because of treatment, find an appetite.  It may also help to reduce over all pain.  As I am aware the use of the canibis oil and more recently the juicing of the raw plant are some of the ways people are suggesting they have over come negative health concerns.  We actually have an article up about this called ”  “.  If you find you have any questions please feel free to contact the   and we will be more than happy to help you.  Thank you again for your post, take care and be well! Have to get essential oil from plant and ingest Cannabis Oil Cures Cancer, there is a ton of proof out there. Check Out Run From The Cure. No one has the right to keep this medicine from people who are sick and dying. The Pharmaceutical Industry knows this and it would likely put them out of business, so they definitely want to stop this information from getting out there.I’m currently in remission from Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia and THC helped me get there. I live in Houston, TX and was treated at MD Anderson with typical chemotherapies and failed to completely put my cancer in remission. Another treatment called the BiTE protocol only dropped my blast cells (cells that determine amount of cancer cells in bone marrow) 4% in 15 days. Combined with the BiTE, smoking marijuana helped drop that percentage down to 1%. In only 10 days. I believe that a lot of people would benefit from marijuana if it were legalized. It would save millions of cancer patients, help others with debilitating illnesses, and possibly save the USA’s economy.Am Christopher i live in USA, my wife was suffering from breast cancer and the doctor told me that there was nothing that he could do then a friend told me about the Rick Simpson hemp oil that can cure cancer, i told he that my wife’s breast cancer was in the last stage that i didn’t think the hemp oil would cure it and he persuaded me to try it so i decided to give it a try.I did some research and i found a doctor who helped me with the cannabis oil to cure my wife’s breast cancer and he assured me that after 4 months the cancer would be gone.I bought it and she used it,it worked exactly as the doctor had promised. Thanks to doctor Bryan Vance for helping me with cannabis oil and for his support and care.HE HELPED ME AND HE CAN HELP YOU TOO.Warning:
There is no Dr. Nathan Kisper, Dr. Mike Henderson, Dr. Steve Philip, Dr. Sedney Carey, Dr. Mac Donnald, Dr. Bryan Vance, Dr. Robert Melamede etc.. Only the big scammers hiding behind these names. Be careful and don’t trust them and in any of their “stories”!!!why not …who you are????the government maybe…..is a lot of people be curing with treatment oil and u come here and say don’t buy!!!!!…..my wife has been suffering from thyroid cancer which was confirmed to be stage four, the doctor told me there was little she could do since she wasn’t responding to treatment but my brother in law came to our rescue by ordering this hemp oil from rick Simpson which he said he has been helping some patient fight against cancer of various types so we decided to give it a chance, so far my wife is improving perfectly very well and presently she can walk around the house all by herself. I felt its necessary i let others who are suffering from this acute disease that once you have a good hemp oil it can really give one a sound second chance of living. if you happen to be in need of this hemp oil you can contact the foundation who supplied my brother in law with this email:  WagnerMy story has to do with the healing power of Rick Simpson cannabis oil.”My sister Khloe, age 65, was diagnosed with Bone Cancer on the inside of her backbone 2 years ago, which had metastasized from breast cancer she didn’t know she had. I prayed for a total healing with NO operation, no chemo and no radiation.  not everyone has had the experience of knowing Rick Simpson as their Healer… but they can! Rick Simpson, father of all natural hemp.May the grace of God be upon Rick for his good work and courage; and with his Hemp we are healed”.
Early this year i traveled to Europe( Slovak) to visit a good friend of mine when i heard Rick was around so i traveled to him and meet him one on one and purchase the healing oil from him, now am so happy and filled with joy that my sister is no longer a cancer patient and she’s completely healed with his miracle healing oil. The doctor himself confirmed to us on Tuesday last week that my sister Khloe is fully OK. No sign of cancer in her bone or breast again….Wow…Am so so happy that my family and I have been thanking Rick for his good work of saving this world with his cannabis oil. Please people i don’t know how to thank him enough so am dropping his contact here***  *** +447024078253 ***, am begging if you can spear 5 minutes of your time and please help me to thank him, he is truly a hero of this world and i pray for God’s strength and wisdom upon him.Does anyone know how much raw cannabis leaf I would use to drinker day or serving .I am one hundred and 113 lbs and five feet tall and  looking to heal stage one uterine cancer.
Please help!Wow am so grateful for the good Rick Simpson (  ) did for me and my family for curing my husband’s prostate cancer of 3 years.My name is Elizabeth Casson from north Carolina USA, June 2 2010 my husband was diagnosed of prostate cancer and he had done all sorts of treatments (chemo, radio and herbal) and his doctor still gave no hope for his condition, after his last chemo treatment on 09/28/2013 the doctor told him that he had 8 months to live. When I heard this I was disappointed, frustrated and full of pain that the one I love so much would leave me and my children all alone in this world.One faithful day my uncle called and told me about Rick Simpson cannabis oil and how it cured his 48 years old neighbor so I became very interested in this cure, my uncle and I decided to do some research about the Rick Simpson cannabis oil and I found it very interesting, so I decided to purchase the oil. I called my uncle and asked him for Rick’s direct contact, so I could discuss with him.I contacted Rick Simpson(  ) he told me what to do to purchase the oil and how to use the oil I followed his instructions dutifully and now I can proudly say that my husband is cancer free, all thanks to Rick Simpson for restoring my lost hope.Att;
My name is Mr Dickson i was afflicted with a serious illness which i consulted many spell cast prophet which did not help me but all they did was to scam me and add more to my problems so i was almost at the point of death and i promise myself never to believe any spell caster in life until i met with Mrs Dorcas who was scam in a loan transaction who told me about this great spell-caster Dr Tanasia, who help her and her family during their problems and i just give the great spell caster a chance and he solved my problems and today i am grateful to announce to yo that we now have a great spell-caster who can trustfully solve all your problems if you are tired down and you want to solve your problems kindly email Dr Tanasia VIA;  via his mobile number +27620171252 and i assure you 100% over your problem
Thanks
Warm Regard’s
Mr Dicksonsmoke a blunt a day(about 1 gram) you will additionally need rolling paper, filters and a rollerAm Christopher i live in USA, my wife was suffering from breast
cancer and the doctor told me that there was nothing that he could do
then a friend told me about the Rick Simpson hemp oil that can cure
cancer, i told he that my wife’s breast cancer was in the last stage
that i didn’t think the hemp oil would cure it and he persuaded me to
try it so i decided to give it a try.I did some research and i
found a doctor who helped me with the cannabis oil to cure my wife’s
breast cancer and he assured me that after 4 months the cancer would be
gone.I bought it and she used it,it worked exactly as the doctor
had promised. Thanks to doctor Bryan Vance for helping me with cannabis
oil and for his support and care.HE HELPED ME AND HE CAN HELP YOU TOO.Pingback: ()Thanks to the Doctor that help me solve all my Cancer problems, he help me with his Hemp Oil and brought back my life in order. The Cannabis Oil really does work and it is real great and i would say thanks to Dr. Bobby for being my life saver. Please for your health issues kindly contact the Doctor via email: .he can help you solve any kind of problems, I assure you that you can count on Him for all Medical problems.contact the Doctor via email: , If he was able to cure my cancer within 3 months with Rick Simpson Oil and his advise on my medical life, then he can help you at with your cancer problems within same period of time and could be your life physician, because he is currently my only trust and worthy physician, so i strongly recommend his knowledge in your health life.HI Mr. Rick Simpson,Am very honoured to inform you that I have been total cured of my lungs cancer with appreciation to the motivation you gave to me even when I was told by my doctor I had only 6 months to live before my lungs cancer will strike me out of this beautiful universal which I have accumulated so much resources to last me and my family for enternity.After reading the cancer cannabis oil miracle cure in the clinic where I was admitted, I had to contact Mr. Rick Simpson on his email:  in order to secure the medication and with fast responses from them, I eventually made order for the medication which arrive within 3 days of order.
I started treatment and implementing every instructions along with diet I was place on, I started noticing almost instant results! It’s been 106 days and my lungs cancer is finally under control, no matter what I eat or do with my life, I have been verified that my lungs cancer has been cured by 7 Hospitals here in the State. email: My doctor along side with Nurses have been totally confused on how I beat my cancer in 106 days, I have fully recovered and I am now a free agent from cancer of the lungs, and it’s all thanks to Mr. Rick Simpson.
email: Thank you, I am forever grateful.Pingback: ()My husband Rafael was diagnosed with grade 4 glioblastoma last July. Has undergone surgery, radiation and chemotherapy, and currently in 6th month of chemo 5 days of each month. Since radiation therapy was completed about 6 months ago the glioblastoma cancer have not gone.  I was making research online on any possible solution that could help my husband and i came across CHARLOTTE’S WEB CANNABIS on how cannabis oil have helped alot of people in Colorado and outside USA to cure any kind of cancer. I was so happy and relief when i saw this website and i knew there was hope for my husband to live. I contacted the CHARLOTTE’S WEB CANNABIS via email  to get the high quality THC cannabis oil for treatment and prescription guidelines on how to use the cannabis oil for treatment of glioblastoma. As i am posting this comment today, my husband grade 4 glioblastoma is completely gone and he is healthy and living fine.I am unable to post this in the Success Stories for whatever reason, so I posted here. I was diagnosed with prostate cancer on October 18, 2013. I was advised by my doctor that my only options were to get a prostatectomy or have radiation seeds implanted in my prostate or receive regular external beam radiation. I declined. I knew there had to be other options.I scoured the Internet and discovered a wealth of information about cannabis oil curing cancer. I was able to obtain some medical marijuana oil (Rick Simpson Oil) from it and consumed the recommended dosage by mid January.On January 26th I had a cancer reassessment which consisted of an MRI with a state of the art Tesla 3 MRI machine. Results – NO SIGN OF CANCER! CANCER FREE!One of the things that helped me while going through all this was reading the testimonials and the success stories of those who have used the oil and were cured And with good food diet. Now that this wonderful oil has cured me, I feel I need to let others know as well. Please feel free to contact me ask anything should you like more information or directly contact to Rick Simpson at:  were i purchased cannabis oil. Thank you, Dante Amato.Dear Rick,I cannot describe what I feel! This is absolutely astounding and great! Thank you: thank you so much. I don’t know what to say: I think I’ll have to let this fantastic news “sink in” in my brain a little: I’ll send you another email again and again.It’s like Magic i am now CANCER FREE I have never been more amazed and happy in my life! Contact him directly at his email:  for your own oil.May GOD Bless you all! Yours truly,Novoa Mendezwe supply the best quality medical marijuana strains discrete overnight  Our strains are best grade AAA ++ We offer discrete shipping . Here is a list of strains and more : Lavender oil, hemp oil, Hawaiian Snow, Blue Dream, Chrystal, Hash, Hash oil Lavender, Grape Ape, Headband, Purple Kush, Snow White Feminized, Diesel, Jack the Ripper, Silver Haze, B52, White Widow, Super Lemon Haze, Blue Cheese, Lavender, OG Kush, Big Bud, New York Diesel Feminized, Grape Ape, Headband, Sour Diesel, C-99, Chocolate Chunk, Whiteberry, Outdoor Blueberry, Northern Lights, California Outdoor LA Confidential, Cheese, Afghan, Haze, Bubba Kush, LSD, Medusa Feminized, Super Skunk, Trainwreck, Vanilla Kush, Juicy Fruit, Autoflower J. Horror Fem, Strawberry Cough, Canyon, Sour Kush, Chiesel, Bubba Kush, Super Silver Haze, Apollo 13, Jack Herer ,All inquiries are welcomed at.we also got some Hash Cannabis Oils. you can call or text (803) 271-0876 or mail us at (morgananderson450@gmail.com)Hello every one Hey! I can’t believe this. A great testimony that i must share to all cancer patient in the world i never believed that their could be any complete cure for lung cancer or any cancer,i saw people’s testimony on blog sites of how Dr. Mark Sircus cannabis oil brought them back to life again. Glory be to God for leading me to this genuine Dr. Mark Sircus. I am so happy as i am sharing this testimony. My advice to you all who thinks that their is no cure for cancer that is Not true ,just contact him and get cannabis oil from Dr. Mark Sircus and you will be free of cancer and free for ever, Try it and you will not regret it because it truly works. One thing i have come to realize is that you never know how true it is until you try. There is no harm in trying. Remember, delay in treatment leads to death. Here is his email: Hello my name is Robert , My wife was suffering from Breast Cancer and the doctor told me that there was nothing that they could do to save my beloved wife. Then a friend told me about the Rick Simpson hemp oil that can cure cancer, i told him that my wife’s breast cancer was in the last stage that i don’t think the hemp oil would cure it and he persuaded me to try it, for the love of my wife, i decided to give it a try. I did some research and i found a doctor who helped me with the cannabis oil to cure my wife’s breast cancer and he assured me that after  3 months the cancer would be no more, and For the past one year my wife is fine now, here is the email to contact: , I bought it and she used it, it worked exactly as the doctor prescribed it. Thanks to Dr9 Mehmet Oz for taking away sorrow in my life. what would i and my wife have done. God will bless Dr, Mehmet Oz for helping me with cannabis oil and for his support and care. contact: , i will keep on help you to fight cancer in the World, all i have to say is THANK YOU LORD.WONDERS THEM SAY SHALL NEVER END,HAVE NEVER BELIEVE IN CHARMS OR HAEBS EVER SINCE I WAS GIVING BIRTH TO,UNTILL I WAS CAUGHT UP WITH A DEADLY DISEASE CALLED BREAST CANCER,HAVE BEEN TO SEVERAL MEDICAL PERSONEL,ALL THEY KEEP TELLING ME IS THAT MY BREAST  MUST BE CUT OFF,I ALMOST GAVE UP ON MYSELF AND DECIDED TO AGREE TO THE MEDICALS PERSONEL,BECAUSE I  WAS SCARED OF LOSSING MY LIFE,TWO WEEKS TO MY OPERATION I DECIDED TO GO ONLINE TO SEE IF I CAN SEE ANY COMMENT ON BREAST CANCER,I SAW HOW THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE DIED DURING D OPERATION,I WAS VERY SCARED,WEN I WAS GOING THROUG DIS ARTICLES ONLINE,I CAME ACROSS A WOMAN TESTIFYING ON HOW A PARTICULAR SPELL CASTER CALLED DR RAMAH, SAVE HER FROM D SAME DISEASE,THEN I CONTACTED D SPELL CASTER AND HE TOLD ME TO HAVE FAITH THAT AM NOT GOING TO DO ANY OPERATION,AND HE GAVE ME DIRECTIONS ON WHAT TO DO,AND HE ASK ME TO SEND MONEY TO HIM TO PROVIDE HERBS  THAT AM GOING TO BE TAKEIN,I WAS SCARED,THAT HE HIS A SCAMMER,BUT I DECIDED TO TAKE THE RISK,AFTER SENDING HIM THE MONEY,TWO DAYS AFTER I RECEIVE A CALL FROM DHL SERVICE THAT A PACEL WAS SEND TO THEM BY THE DOCTOR,AND MY PACEL WAS SENT TO ME.AFTER RECEIVING IT,I CALLED DR RAMAH,AND HE TOLD ME HOW TO TAKE THEM,ON THE DAY OF MY OPERATION I WENT TO D HOSPITAL AND THE DOCTOR WHO WAS SUPPOSE TO OPERATE ON ME WAS SHOCK  AND SUPRISE TO FIND OUT THAT THERE IS NO CANSER ANYMORE ON MY BREAST.AM USING THIS MEDIUM TO PLS INFORM EVERY ONE OUT THERE WHO IS SUFFERING FROM DIS DISEASE,THAT ALL HOPE IS NOT LOST, THEY ARE REAL SPELL CASTER AND HERB MEN,AND DR RAMAH IS ONE OF THEM,U CAN REACH Dr Ramah VIA email .Am jack Andason my testimony cannabis oil. it’s a shame how most
of these low life’s and impostors find delight in scamming poor patients
 off their hard earned money,but thank God i was so fortunate to come
 across rick who shipped the cannabis oil to cure my mothers
cancer,which she had been sick for over 2 years now.we are so happy
now,i never thought we still have legit persons and seller like rick.
you can contact rick on his Email. .
 i know he will help you because he is God fearing and caring too. i
thank God and i thank rick for helping  & being truthful about his
shipment.” I am here to express my profound warm gratitude to the Rick Simpson hemp oil, which i got from Dr,ricksimpsonhealthcare1@gmail.com. I am now leaving a healthy life since the past 1 Year i am now cancer free after the application and usage. You can contact for your medication from via Email: . Wish you all the best and a happy healing. Thanks and God Bless you for your help, i will keep on help you to fight cancer in the World.
Sincerely
John Sweet
Chicago“It continuously amazes me how much RSO fought my cancer – with no side effects or risks. Alongside the killing of my cancer cells, which is the most important factor to me, RSO also helped with pain and nausea. Indeed, the quality of my life improved all around. Thanks to Rick Simpson Oil which i procured And, with my growing experience along side expanding clinical trial data, I find myself more and more confident in RSO and I’m now CANCER FREE and thus sharing this statement. Contact him via email:  for your own cure God bless you Rick”Pingback: ()I am a cancer survivor. In 2008, I
was diagnosed with Ewing’s Sarcoma, a rare type of bone cancer. My
treatment It included 18 months of chemotherapy,
six weeks of
radiation and three surgeries – one to remove the tumor, another to
remove the rib where it resided, and then finally a very invasive lung
biopsy. I was constantly sick, sometimes so much so that I needed to be
in isolation. My immune system was so weakened by the treatment that I
was at high risk of developing other diseases. I lost all of my hair and
a significant amount of weight. After two years of treatment, I was
told to come back in three months for my first check-up.
I read
something about cannabis oil the cure for cancer on the internet and i
decided to give it a trial, i order the medication via email from
,
and the medication was delivered to me, i started treatment as
instructed and i can tell you that am still here tell everyone about my
story.