        Probiotics are one of the best ways to  and yogurt is one source many people turn to. But, if you’re dairy-free, you might have trouble finding a store-bought probiotic yogurt that meets your needs. When you do manage to find one, vegan yogurt tends to be rather more expensive than dairy-based. So what’s the solution? You buy full-fat coconut milk and make it yourself!        This vegan probiotic yogurt recipe is extremely easy—all you need is a little time and four ingredients. Making your own yogurt is a great way to avoid all the artificial sweeteners and  found in store-bought yogurt. Refined sugar is linked to several diet-related health problems like heart disease, type 2 diabetes, Alzheimer’s disease, and many others. Artificial sweeteners, like , are linked to weight gain, obesity, and a craving for progressively sweeter foods.   The health benefits of eating yogurt are real (and delicious). Yogurt contains probiotics, which are live, cultured bacteria that are good for your gut. These beneficial bacteria provide many health-supporting benefits for:  In order to be formally considered yogurt, the probiotic mix you add to your yogurt’s base must contain both Lactobacillus bulgaricus and Streptococcus thermophilus. Probiotics work by competing with harmful microorganisms for space and resources in your intestines. Probiotics antagonize unhealthy microbes and work with your immune system’s response to fight them. , the probiotic in this recipe, features L. bulgaricus, S. thermophilus, and 21 other health-promoting strains for a healthy, happy .        
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.Could you make this with your Latero Flora instead? Sounds amazing! Hi, thank you for contacting us. Although it would be a
wonderful idea, Latero-Flora does not contain the probiotic strains needed to properly culture the yogurt.cant have coconut milk … what can i replace with ? 🙂Hi, Tara. Although the yogurt consistency may vary, you can try using other non-dairy products like almond or
cashew milk.Can’t have almond or cashew milk .  …Can try hemp or macadamia milk ?Thanks for responding. We don’t have experience with hemp or macademia milk, however, they may work since they are also
vegan-friendly. The consistency of the yogurt may still be different, but we’d love to hear your feedback.Can I  substitute  corn flour for thicker or gelatin?Hi, Roma. We’ve haven’t tried it with corn flour, so we’re not certain if it will be the same. We don’t anticipate any issues as long as it’s non-GMO, however, to keep the recipe vegan-friendly, we suggest leaving out the gelatin.