Vitamin E is an important fat-soluble antioxidant compound that aids the body in neutralizing the harmful after-effects of oxidation of fats. Current research is even looking into the important role that this vitamin plays in stopping free-radical production, a key method of preventing the development of chronic diseases and aging. It is also a vital element in the overall maintenance of a healthy immune system.Some studies are even looking into its role in preventing degenerative mental imbalances such as dementia and Alzheimer’s disease. And while many of us may do well in taking extra vitamin E supplements, we can use an organic diet to get a large amount of the daily requirements for this powerful antioxidant lipid. In fact, there are many common foods with vitamin E. You probably have a few in your house right now.Here are fifteen foods with vitamin E that you should strongly consider adding to your diet.Almonds are one the best vitamin E foods. Just an ounce of almonds offers a whopping 7.4 milligrams of vitamin E. You can also get your vitamin E needs in the form of almond milk and almond oils. We would recommend eating raw almonds, if possible.Select , such as sunflower, pumpkin and sesame, are another common food with vitamin E. In fact, eating just ¼ of a cup of sunflower seeds gives you 90.5% of your recommended daily value, making them one of the best vitamin E foods you can eat daily.Swiss chard is easily one of the healthiest vegetables you can eat on a daily basis. Commonly known to be high in vitamin K, vitamin A and vitamin C, Swiss chard is another food high in vitamin E. Just one cup of boiled swiss chard greens will provide you with almost 17% of your daily recommended values.Similar to swiss chard, mustard greens are very nutrient dense and will provide a variety of health benefits. Not only are they one of the best vitamin E foods, but mustard greens are also high in vitamin K, vitamin A, , and vitamin c. Eating just one cup of boiled mustard greens contains about 14% of your daily dietary requirements. We would recommend eating organic mustard greens, if possible.Spinach may not be your favorite veggie, but it is one of the best leafy greens you can add to your diet. Not only is it one of the  and naturally high in folate, it’s also one of the best vitamin E foods as well. Just one cup of boiled spinach will provide you with approximately 20% of your daily needs. Try adding fresh spinach to your sandwiches to make them extra healthy.While turnip greens may have a slightly bitter taste, they are very high in many essential nutrients. Like the rest of the leafy greens on this list, just one cup will provide you with plenty of vitamin K, vitamin A, vitamin C and folate. Not to mention approximately 12% of your daily requirements of vitamin E.Kale is another great cruciferous vegetable you should eat as often as possible. Kale is very high in many nutrients, in fact, just one cup of boiled kale can give you almost 6% of your daily vitamin E requirements. We would recommend eating organic kale, if possible.Most plant seed oils are very good sources for Vitamin E as well. The best oil with vitamin E is Wheat germ oil. In fact, one tablespoon of this oil holds 100% of your daily Vitamin E requirements. Sunflower oil is another excellent option, as it provides over 5 mg of the vitamin, and can easily be be used for cooking. Other great Vitamin-E-rich oils include hempseed oil, coconut oil, cottonseed oil (with almost 5 mg of vitamin E),  and safflower oil. We would recommend only buying oils that are cold pressed unrefined and organic.A perfect snack during a long workday, eating just one ounce of hazelnuts can provide you with approximately 20% of our daily requirements of vitamin E. For an alternative to eating nuts, try drinking hazelnut milk in your morning coffee instead of milk or flavored creamer.Add an ounce of these nuts to anything you please! One serving contains 2.6 mg of vitamin E. You can also use  for added health benefits.Perhaps one of the tastiest foods with Vitamin E, avocados represent natures creamiest, oil-rich food. Just half of an avocado holds more than 2 mg of vitamin E. Avocados are very easy to incorporate into your diet. We would recommend adding sliced avocados to your salad, a sandwich, or mashed up as guacamole!For generations now, broccoli has been considered one of the , but it’s also one of the healthiest foods high in Vitamin E. Just one cup of steamed broccoli will provide you with 4% of your daily requirements. Broccoli may not be as nutrient dense as other Vitamin E foods on this list, but it is definitely one of the healthiest foods you can eat daily.An excellent spice, parsley is another great Vitamin E food. Try adding fresh parsley to salads and dishes for an extra Vitamin-E kick. Dried parsley will also provide you with this important vitamin, but the fresher the better.This popular fruit is most commonly known as one of the best , but it’s also high in Vitamin E. Just one papaya will give you approximately 17% of your daily needs. Try adding fresh or frozen papaya to fruit smoothies, along with other fruity vitamin E foods on this list for an extra healthy snack!From the oil to the fruit, eating olives is an excellent way of getting your daily needs for vitamin E. Just one cup of olives can give you approximately 20% of your daily recommended amount.Vitamin E is absolutely crucial to your health. If you aren’t incorporating these foods into your diet every day, then consider supplementation. Just about every multivitamin includes vitamin E, but be choosy. Many multivitamin brands are loaded with fillers, dyes, anti-caking agents, and subpar ingredients. Look for a supplement made with all-natural, organic ingredients, from a reputable company. Read reviews and seek out only the best.Supplying a full day’s supply of vitamin E in every serving,   is an organic, all-in-one, multi-nutritional dietary supplement. Vitamin E is just one of the 415 different vitamins, minerals, health-promoting superfoods, and phytonutrients in IntraMAX. Quite simply, IntraMAX is the most advanced, clinically proven, nutritional supplement you can get.
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.Cottonseed oil???? Cotton isn’t even a food! Very disappointed with Dr. Group.And doctors are saying you don’t need to take Vitamin E pills! Bah! Humbug!  Vitamin E seems to be pretty important.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Other than fruits vegetables and nuts I also take 3 vitamin D tablets a day I am 55 years old and have been taking the vitamins now for one year and have noticed a dramatic change my hair is thicker my skin is firmer and my nails grow faster than I can keep them cutPingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()so weird, I take practically every known supplement for the heart known..my BP and all are always right on, I am 62..however a new blood test done for my heart shows I am in need of vitamin E- not only did i not ever consider this as a vitamin  for other than the skin..I also did not know it is a major complex!!!  Now how do I get enough to begin to restore it???Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pills are not good at all, according to this one study I saw, with one type of nutrient being tested. They found a  6% to 100% difference.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()you’re weirdyou sound like you’re in an infomercialspanky my mankyThere is not one food on this list that I would eat enough of to meet the recommended daily allowance.so i was reading this ron jeremy article
(out of curiosity)
(ahem)ok, so i reached this part about vitamin e and it said it increases sperm production like…crazy…
ahemI found a difference when I switched brands of drops. Getting your levels tested is what is important, and then sticking with the same brand.Pingback: ()Too much vit. E thins my blood. I get red spots on the white parts of my eye – doesn’t hurt but it looks bad for a whole week. I’ve learned to stay away from vit. e. Just a “heads up” to anyone out there who might be getting red spots also. The eye dr.’s couldn’t figure it out. I learned this by “Googling” it.Johnnybravo is one rude weirdo..don’t pay attention to what he says…Just drink soy milk (sweetened/unsweetened) it is fortified with Vitamin E, 250ml has 38% of your RDA (4.5mg = 38%). No need to buy pills and feel like a smack head.Use in one go in smoothies
tea
coffee
as an alternative to milk in your cereal for breakfast.Note: anything you consume for a general rule stays in your system for 2-3 days so you do not NEED to eat foods high in any one specific nutrient daily to meet your RDA which is a misconception.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()