While  remains one of America’s most common daily drinks, it is interesting to note that it may also be the reason why many Americans experience , bloating, and other forms of indigestion.    When you consider the average cow is given growth hormones, antibiotics, GMO feed, vaccinations, and exposed to toxic conditions, it is no wonder that many humans experience negative health effects from consuming  or beef.Goat’s milk is a much healthier alternative, especially when it is raw and organic. Goats produce about 2% of the global milk supply; people who consume goat’s milk cite a lower incidence of allergies and digestive complaints.Goat’s milk supports good health in many ways. It is also void of the negative characteristics of cow’s milk.Some research suggests that one of the main benefits of goat’s milk is that it doesn’t cause inflammation. That’s a big reason why it is easier for people with bowel inflammation to drink goat’s milk, instead of cow’s milk.Goats require less space and eat less food than cows. Six goats can exist on the same acreage required for two cows.Studies performed by the USDA and Prairie View A&M University link goat’s milk to an increased ability to metabolize iron and copper, especially among individuals with digestion and absorption limitations. Besides drinking goat’s milk, you can also take  to support digestion.A main benefit of goat’s milk is how closely it resembles human breast milk. Because it has a chemical composition that is much closer to human milk than cow’s milk, it is easier to digest and assimilate in the human body.“Smaller” fat? Does that mean it has less fat? Not necessarily, it means that the size of the fat molecules in goat’s milk are much smaller than those found in cow’s milk. This makes goat’s milk easier to digest.While cow’s milk is about seventeen percent fatty acids, goat’s milk averages thirty-five percent fatty acids, making it more nutritionally wholesome. In fact, up to 50% of people who experience lactose intolerance to cow’s milk find that they can easily digest goat’s milk, especially if it is raw.Many people worry that they need to drink cow’s milk to meet their calcium requirements and support bone health. Goat’s milk is high in , the amino acid tryptophan, and is a more healthy option than cow’s milk.Cow’s milk is linked to allergies and excess mucous, goat’s milk is not. Cow’s milk is high in fat, which may increase mucous build-up. Moreover, the fat globules in goat’s milk are one-ninth the size of those in cow’s milk; it’s another possible reason why it does not produce irritation in the gut.In Naturopathic medicine, goats are referred to as bioorganic sodium animals. They are associated with vigor, flexibility, and vitality. Cows are calcium animals known for stability and heaviness. Bioorganic sodium is an important element for supporting joint health. Traditionally, goat’s milk has been used to nourish and rejuvenate an overtaxed nervous system. Goat’s milk is also extremely nutrient dense. It has almost 35% of your daily calcium requirements in one cup. One cup of goat’s milk provides 20.0% of the daily requirement of riboflavin and it’s a good source of phosphorous, vitamin B-12, protein, and potassium. In fact, Gandhi himself rejuvenated his own health after fasting by drinking raw goat’s milk.Whereas most cow’s milk contains bovine growth hormones and bovine somatotropin, a hormone that artificially increases milk production, goats are rarely given these substances. Because of its use on the fringes of big agriculture, goat’s milk is more nutritious and less toxic.Goat’s milk contains selenium, an essential trace mineral that supports the immune system.These are just a few of the many health benefits of goat’s milk. Not only does it provide complete nutrition, but it has fewer additives than cow’s milk. The healthy choice is obvious.
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.Where do ya get it?You have my email, please reply.you can get it at walmart or just about any grocery store. walmart carries it around the teas, creams, and such in a 12-0z (i think) can.If you’re comparing pasteurized, big dairy cow milk to small farm, grass fed, raw goat milk, then yeah sure it’s healthier. How does raw, grass-fed cow milk compare? I’ve had several gallons of raw, Jersey cow milk, it’s great but you can’t get it down at the local grocery and you can’t get raw goat’s milk there either… only at the farm in my state.“Goat’s milk is a great option for people who want to lose weight. It has less fat, but still maintains the high levels of proteins and essential amino acids found in cow’s milk.”Fat doesn’t make you fat.Don’t worry, last time I had goat milk, it tasted very similar to cow milk.Great post! I’ve been telling people about the benefits of goat milk for years now. But nobody seems to believe me, they usually just respond with something like, “Goat milk? Yuck!”Im a believer in the health benefits of drinkng goat milk. My son has a reaction to casien and so he drinks it and eats goat cheese and goat yogurt. I cant stomach the awful taste though. Its too bad goat’s milk has a distinctively awful after taste.I’m a big fan of goat milk, and have recently stopped drinking raw cow milk and started sticking to goat milk.  That said, I have to take issue with a couple things.  For one thing, I consider the lower fat content a drawback of switching to goat milk, not an advantage.  If I can get organic, grass-fed cream that isn’t ultra-pasteurized, I add a dash of it to my goat milk to increase the fat content.  Another thing – why all the talk about the toxins related to cows?  The correct comparison is organic, free-range, grass-fed goat milk to organic, free-range, grass-fed cow milk, not the chemistry sets sold in the grocery store.  Something to watch out for – if you look in your grocery store for goat milk, it’s usually ultra-pasteurized, which is even worse than pasteurized milk.  You have to use the Weston Price website to find good raw sources.  Here’s another advantage of goat milk over cow, especially if your sources are hard to get to – it freezes much better.  If you freeze cow milk, then thaw it, it often comes out thin, with chunks of butter floating in it.  Goat milk doesn’t do that.I never knew that goat’s milk had that much more fatty acids than cow’s milk! It definitely seems beneficial to drink it. However, I think  that goat’s milk is not necessarily less toxic than cow’s milk depending on where you live. Injecting bovine somatotropin in cows is not legal where I live (Canada) and milk is always tested for traces of the hormone before sold for consumption.Hi Dr. Group –
Question: my dog has mandibular osteosarcoma (bone cancer of the jaw) and is on a raw diet + raw goat milk (recommended by his holistic vet). He is taking a cancer supplement called “Artemisinin” = Artemisia annua (also called “sweet wormwood”). Artemisinin is not to be given with food that contains iron (e.g. meats), or within 4 hours of eating ferrous food. As I understand it, one component of raw goat milk is Lactoferrin, which binds to iron, hence making it unavailable for germs. If that is correct, would it not interfere with aforementioned cancer supplement? I am a member of a cancer blog, and offered information on raw goat milk given to dogs affected with different kind of cancers. Now, we are all trying to find out if certain components of foods or medications/supplements are interfering with each other or not. We have concerns if it is advisable to combine raw goat milk with Artemisinin.Can you perhaps help to clarify our concerns?Thank you for your help.
PetraSo Why is pasteurized goat’s milk worse than cow’s milk?Eiji Fuller, Are you giving your son Pastuerized goat milk or raw? I am boiling it at home. Cant bring myself to giver her raw milkI pasteurize my goat’s milk for their babies only.  We practice CAE PREVENTION.  CAE is Caprine Arthritic Encephalitus wich is passed from mother to kids through milk.  I myself prefer raw milk, also, the goat disease is not transmissible to humans.  I have about 30 show Nubians and live the animals!  Drink goat milk!!!!i never realised goat is better than cow’s milk and i heard from my old folks goat is good for sick patient.Now,i’ll go for a goat milk that has good benefits and healthier.Goat’s Milk is also a lot sweeter than regular milk. I enjoy it as a dessert substitute almost.a goat provides all the necassities you’ll ever need in life. a goat can provide milk, friendship, & eventually meat (humanely, of course)also you have to be careful WHERE you get your sources from…… this is the problem. something is discovered as the greatest health secret in the world then major marketing companies get all technical about it and commercialize the hell out of it without stopping to think where it comes from. there is such a thing as manufactured goat’s milk same as manufactured “Greek” yogurt…. i actually rather enjoy the latter even if it’s not entirely good for you. where milk is concerned we have to be extremely careful and wise where it comes from. and we can’t forget about the Goat’s feelings on how we get it.Goats have feelings, too! Be wise on how you get your milk.Been taking goat’s milk for less than a month and my leg cramps have improved tremendously. I can sleep now longer than before. Imagine everytime I move when in bed both of my legs cramp and  can only  sleep a few hours in an inclined position which is very uncomfortable. Thanks to goat’s milk, one of God’s natural healings gifts to mankind. From Francis of Cebu, Philippines.if the goat milk you drink tastes bad then get it from another source, it is what they are fed mostly but breed plays into it as well. we run Nigerian Dwarfs and the milk is sweet. there is no ‘ goaty’ flavor. if they are your goats, then adding baking soda to the feed helps the flavor alot.feeding alfalfa or letting them free graze can affect the flavor tremendously. especially eating weeds. Good luck.hello. I have had a serious autoimmune illness for over 20 years. I am trying to change my diet. a test showed I am sensitive to cow’s milk but not goat milk. sadly, the goat milk I can find in my city (tastes horrible, with that goat aftertaste I cannot stand). I cannot find Nigerian dwarf goat milk anywhere. do you have any ideas?
thank you:)
sueI’ve been drinking goats milk for the last few years due to finding out about type A cows…I find  that  in the USA goats milk is much more expense then cow’s milk,  here in England however  it’s a much fairer price and we also have goat butter, something I couldn’t find in the US at all. Thanks for posting.Thanks for sharing, Esmae. I haven’t seen goat’s butter either but I suspect if you got close to a farmer and had a source for cream it may be an easy at-home project.In Australia, GMO feed, hormones and drugs are banned.It is physically impossible to force a cow to produce more milk with drugs and hormones . She can not produce anymore milk than her body will allow.wow! im very impressed with what i found out about goatmilk and im very happy for it since me and my husband was giving our 1 year old son a RAW GOATMILK(UNPASTEURIZED) and since then, he is very helthy, very calm, good mood, happy baby than he was before..because we’re giving him powdered milk for 7 months and we noticed the difference…its way lot better than any other milk can..
we are very satisfied with the raw goatmilk!why is soft goat cheese sour(tangy)??? Is it better as probiotic than hard goat cheese???First off, goat milk doesn’t have less fat than cow milk; it has more. I see the higher fat content as a good thing, but get your facts straight. Second, the size of the fat globules has no relevance to gut irritation, as evidenced by homogenized cow milk (even smaller globules) causing gastrointestinal troubles in a notable percentage of the population.  Fact issues like these make me doubt the entire article, even if I (would normally) fundamentally agree with it.I’m in Canada and can find goat butter. Liberte (a quebec company) makes it – I think they distribute to the USA as well.Interesting, thank you. I will try this. Have you tries coconut water or coconut milk for your leg cramps? My understanding is that a lack of salts can be part of the cause and so coconut water replenishes the salts well. Nature’s gatorade. (I’m not sure if this is the type of leg cramping you mean though.)good ..informativeMy grandmother was told I would die in two weeks from Bronco=pneumonia.  My grandmother nursed me with Goat’s milk for two years.  Then I was seven years old, now I am seventy one years old.   Goats milk help me lived today.Can you order goats milk from EnglandPingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Well, I ended up on this site because I was searching to see if goat’s milk is beneficial for my Poodle pets.  I drink it myself, but can someone tell me if it’s okay for my pets?Haven’t seen any research and you’ll want to verify yourself but a quick Google search has found a few resources that suggest it can be just as good for them as it is for you.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()I was drinking goats milk I was never sick when I got off of drinking it I was always sick now I am going to find itPingback: ()Pingback: ()Hi,This is a wonderful article thank you.My daughter will be 14 months, on 3 April. She has never in her
life eaten any form of solid food. We chose not to feed her ‘grown-up’ food. No baby cereal, fruit, veg, purity,
chips, sweets…..You name any type of food, and she has NEVER eaten it.
I have been exclusive breastfeeding her for the first 6 months
of her life. Thereafter, she has only ever had fresh goats milk. That’s it!
She drinks between 1.5 and 2 Liters of milk per day. We still do
not give her any water, as a baby who only drinks breast or goats milk, does not need water. In fact, the water is not good for them when living of fresh (healthy-natural-mommy-breast) or goat’s milk. Goat’s milk is a wonderful food source for babies and contains
all the required nutrition a baby needs. It is even rich in iron.
The only time I will add a sachet of SPATONE-pure iron water to
her milk, is when she is teething, which helps with the inflamed gums.She sleeps though the night, every night and has 2 x 2 hour naps
every day. Her physical and mental development is immaculate and advanced. We are intending to keep her on this wonderful ‘goats milk only’ diet for the first 24 months, before slowly introducing solid foods.I don’t know of anyone else who is following this method on our planet, however, it works like a bomb and I wish for parents to realize what a perfect and incredible source of food goats milk truly is.Thank you for the opportunity to share my experience about this magical food.Charlene
South AfricaThe article says goat’s milk is LESS toxic than cows milk… which means goat’s milk is STILL TOXIC!!The term FREE RANGE means Nothing! It is a SCAM on the people! I just watched a documentary that showed a company claiming free range, and there was very little difference between standard treatment to the animals v.s. free range. They were still all sickly and no where to roam as they would like us all to believe!You can now purchase goat’s butter at Sprouts.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()I’m intrigued by your use of the term “fairer price”. In the US big dairies are typically government subsidized while small farm operations bear all of the costs themselves. Grocery stores also sell milk as a “loss leader”, making the final price to the consumer unrealistically low. Our goat milk herd share members are happy to pay the extra cost for our product because they understand the high cost of feed and it’s worth it to them knowing exactly where it came from.Soft cheese is usually made by separating curds from whey by the use of citric acid or lemon juice and eaten fresh as soon as it has finished straining. Hard cheeses are made by a different process and straining is followed by pressing and aging.It isn’t; this stems from the misunderstanding about heating the milk to kill the pathogens that naturally come out with the milk (pasteurizing), which can make people nasty sick. Even keeping an animal in the cleanest environment doesn’t change that their udders are right next to their food exit.If you aim to avoid every toxin in the world, you’re going to be very frustrated.Goat’s milk has all the nutrition for a baby goat, not a baby human. Teeth come in as the body is ready for solid food; pureed vegetables and grains are not “grown-up” food, they’re step-up foods in preparation for coming off milk.We moved to the “country” from Phoenix area and were given two Oberhausley female milking goats one was milking, the other too young.  All of the goat mik I had ever tasted was strong tasting, to me. I gave up milk years ago due to stomache cramping. But the leg cramps had been horrific past 6 years. Our goats milk is mild and sweet. No strong “goat” taste what so ever.
Last month the younger goat gave birth and now gives us a half gallon of milk twice a day, along with the older goat. That is two gallons of milk a day!  Leg cramps are less, digestive track is very happy and I love drinking a large glass about three times a day.We would love to sell our milk for $5 a half gallon, we have not found anyone interested. For now we freeze the excess and use it for cheese.Thankful in Arizona for this amazing food group.Less fat, (sugars, carbs etc) = CALORIES, Fatty acids are good minerals that aid in weight loss if consumed properly (examples found in Fish Oil, CLA, Avocado etc..) Do some research before you jump to conclusions. Plus not to mentioned the advantages bacteria in goat milk has in digestion vs Cow Milk. Maybe the specific brand you buy has some fillers to mask the unique taste goat milk offers thus making it more fattening if you are comparing it to regular Milk.It depends on the individual farms, but here in Devon, UK, we have a very large organic farm more or less on our doorstep.  The animals are all kept outdoors on grass, the milk that comes from them (and all the other dairy produce) is all sold in their own shop.  The meat is also sold there in their butchery department, and along with all the fruit and veg that they sell, plus organic home-made bread, they’ve got it pretty well sewn up.
They are pricey, but they’re also always busy.  We know that the animals are free to roam, as they are all in the fields when you drive up to the shop.  They are so popular now, they even send out huge lorry-loads of produce and veg boxes to the European continent, as well as all over Britain.I have rheumatoid arthritis and when I would drink cows milk from the store I would have bad flareups to the point where I would be unable to walk so even though I love milk I had to quit drinking it util someone told me raw milk would cause flair ups and I couldn’t find raw cows milk but I am able to find raw goats milk. I drink almost 2 gallons a week and have not had bad flareups since. Thanks to the person that told my husband about it I am now able to drink my milk that I love so much.Pingback: ()Ok, When I was age 2, I had horse shoe brake on my right leg. After in the hospital, Mother had to give me Goats milk for awhile.  Now for some years I have 4 kinds of arthritis.  Would the milk maybe help me? All meds taken had bad side effects.  Help me……….Pingback: ()Pingback: ()If you are still interested in selling, i am interested in buyingIn general whole goat milk has higher fat content as compared to cow milk.  I am not sure why Dr. Group thinks the opposite?Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Quite rich of you to ask @tinapusse:disqus to do her research when in fact you should be doing some!  Goat’s milk has  than cow’s milk — one cup has 10 g vs. 8 g in cow’s — that’s a known fact.  You can check on any reputable site.  This article is half unscientific nonsense or plain false.Also, fatty acids are  “minerals”.  Fatty acids are the building blocks of fats, in the same way that amino acids are building blocks of proteins.  There are harmful fatty acids, and then there are beneficial ones.  Fatty acids does not mean something beneficial by default.As for the bacteria, that’s because a lot of goat milk is drunk raw.  If you have raw cow’s milk, it will also have beneficial bacteria.  And if you have pasteurized goat’s milk, there will be no beneficial bacteria just as in commercial cow’s milk.Goat’s milk has  than cow’s milk — one cup has 10 g vs. 8 g in cow’s — that’s a known fact.  You can check on any reputable site.  This article is half unscientific nonsense or plain false.Bit of a Digression. The camel milk is known to be even better nutritionally than cow, buffalo, sheep and goat milk. It is a rich source of proteins with potential antimicrobial. It contains fewer short-chained fatty acids, high concentrations of linoleic acid which are essential for human nutrition. It has more fat and protein and  much lower Cholesterol than cow or goat milk. It has a high vitamin, mineral  and immuno-globin content, three times higher vitamin C and 10 times higher  iron and lower lactose. It is high in unsaturated fatty acids and B vitamins and higher levels of potassium, magnesium, iron, copper, manganese, sodium and zinc. (Abstract from Wikipedia: Camel Milk).It is an acquired taste. I drank it fresh on few occasions while I was in Saudi Arabia. It is bit sweeter than cow’s milk, bit saltier and has an earthy taste. It is available in the US through Desert Farms, run by Amish communities in the mid-west, around 4 to 5 times more expensive than cow’s milk.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()I started drinking organic, raw goat’s milk about two weeks ago.  The day long energy that I maintain is beyond anything I have experienced in decades.  I never take naps anymore and my mood remains consistent and happy. So happy I found this elixir.Pingback: ()Contrary to popular belief, cows are not given growth hormones. Cows are given antibiotics only when they are very sick (it would be inhumane not to treat them). However, those cows are quarantined until the antibiotics are completely out of their system. Milk is stringently tested before it is even put on a truck. If there is even a minute amount of antibiotics in a tank of milk, the entire tank is dumped and the dairy farmer loses a lot of money. So, there is not antibiotics in conventional milk. (Trust me, dairy farmers do not want to lose money…most of them are already losing money because they cannot set their own prices!)
Also, I can say that organic milk (and even goat’s milk) could also contain GMOs because even though a cow or goat may eat non-GMO feed, they could still eat GMO grasses. Unfortunately, Monsanto genetically engineers more seeds than I can count (they bought the patents for seeds so they can profit from a God-given resource).
Cows are rarely mistreated. It is likely that goats are also occasionally mistreated). Just know that humans are not perfect, but most care for animals properly and would report abuse when witnessed. All employees of a dairy farm are trained to report animal cruelty and all humane treatment of the animals (per the FDA).
If a cow gets mastitis (goats and humans get it, too), they are taken out of milk production and treated…then quarantined if they needed antibiotics. Cows are not milked if they have mastitis! Think about it, this would not be profitable to a farmer to do so. Milk is screened for pus and blood…all milk in a tank would be dumped and the farmer would lose a bunch of money. Also, the cow would be useless to the farmer…this is just not done. Sometimes animals get sick (just as people do), it just happens. The cows are treated well and enjoy being milked.
I am not a dairy farmer. I was raised on a 4,000+ fourth generation dairy farm, so I know firsthand what I am talking about. Scaring people about cow milk quality and painting farmers so negatively is negligent, especially when you only give information that is neither valid nor reliable.
Please do your research by actually going to and working with dairy farmers.
Don’t believe the hype. If you have a cow milk allergy, don’t drink it. I gave my daughter raw, organic goats milk and she had diarrhea and vomited profusely. Goats milk (just as cow milk) is not for everyone.Cows in conventional dairy farms are free to roam in pastures until milking time. The ones that are in pens have an enormous amount of room. They are quite happy, too. I would not eat free range chicken eggs. When chickens are left to range freely, they do not only eat feed and insects as you might think…they mostly eat feces (that is what makes the yolk so dark). People need to actually live on a farm for awhile…the scare tactics are astounding! They are mostly made up in order to make money.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Oh my god there’s talk on fats let’s be honest here goats milk is far more healthy and is brilliant for asthma suffers.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Before they ever started pasteurizing milk. Doctors treated people with dieases with raw milk. If you had Porarissi Arthritis. They gave you 2 lds of butter to eat a week. I really don’t know if that is true. I do know my Doctor in Ohio put me on goats milk for my nervous stomach problems. It takes cows milk one and a half hours to digest. And only 20 minutes with goats milk. So if  some say cows milk has less fat. Your brain needs fat. And if you don’t stay active your going to put more weight on anyway. Grass fed raw goats milk is better than store bought are grass fed raws cows milk. Goats milk is the next thing to a mothers breast milk period. When you pasteurize milk it kills the good stuff in it period.  When I tell people I drink goats milk they get a stupid look on there face. Because they are uneducated and brainwashed. If you want to be healthy.Move to a country were they sell good food. Over here in America it sucks.Pingback: ()I am all for goats milk, I do quite enjoy it. However pertaining to the environmental section of this site, goats are much more detramemtal to the environment than cattle. When grazed right, cattle can benefit land dramatically. When grazed wrong they still do not do the damage goats do. Through history, evidence of goats being the last grazing animal before desertification comes up again and again. I love goats, however, my future farm will not have them because of the damage they do. Cattle however will be used as allies in my permaculture polyculturePingback: ()Fucking LIES!!! You shills are hilarious!!!Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()where do you get goats milk yogurt?Goat’s milk is next to mother’s milk…for fresh goat milk supply at Mumbai please contact 7710902362.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()And you’re a fucking idiot!Pingback: ()Corgan is a princePingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()It has no lectins that is huge for anyone with immune issues or inflammation.  It’s delicious to.I have adhered to a low fat low carb diet only healthy carbs and I am ridiculously sick. Numbers awful so just maybe everyone’s body not the same. As I learn more about lectins,  this may explain my predicament. So some can consume milk and some can’t. We don’t have to have one way fits all.  My cardiologist says different fats can be beneficial.  She is a Dr.Mercola fan too. We learn new info all the time. Besides it’s yummyPingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()The misunderstanding is that the FDA and CDC wish us to believe that humans cannot successfully milk cows any longer despite thousands of years of history milking and drinking raw milk.  Your comment @Art stems from the misunderstanding that pasteurization is a good thing.  It’s only good for the milk coming from unhealthy diseased cows that are forced into stalls eating grains.  For small organic farms that cows free range on grass – pasteurization is not only not necessary, it’s detrimental to the nutrient rich quality of their (healthy) raw milk.  All of the myths you are spreading have been debunked, and if you read forums where people speak of their raw milk experience, you will find that real people are routinely speaking up about their positive experiences with raw milk.  I, for one, have benefited from raw milk.  My energy level, focus, happiness have all increased due to a healthier gut and better nutrient absorption.  I was lactose intolerant but interestingly, I have been drinking a quart of raw milk a day and I’ve not only tolerated it, I’ve been thriving with it.