Many societies, especially those of the Americas and China, have a history of using cayenne pepper therapeutically. A powerful compound with many uses, cayenne pepper is currently gaining buzz for  regimes such as the Master Cleanse, which uses the spice to stimulate circulation and neutralize acidity.Cayenne pepper has been used for a variety of ailments including heartburn, delirium, tremors, gout, paralysis, fever, dyspepsia, atonic dyspepsia, flatulence, sore throat, hemorrhoids, menorrhagia in women, nausea, tonsillitis, scarlet fever, and diphtheria. Let’s take a look at some of the best health benefits cayenne pepper has to offer.Cayenne has the ability to ease upset stomach, ulcers, sore throats, spasmodic and irritating coughs, and diarrhea.Suffering from stuffed up sinuses due to cold, flu, or ? Cayenne pepper aids in breaking up and moving congested mucus.In vitro tests have found that CAY-1, a compound found in cayenne peppers, effectively suppressed the development of 16 different fungal strains, while remaining completely non-toxic to animal cells.This may be related to the pepper’s ability to stimulate a pain response in a different area of the body, thus diverting the brain’s attention to the new site. Following this initial pain reaction, the nerve fibers have a depleted substance P (the nerve’s pain chemical), and the perception of pain is lessened.Cayenne is a well-known digestive aid. It stimulates the , increasing the flow of enzyme production and gastric juices. This aids the body’s ability to metabolize food (and toxins). Cayenne pepper is also helpful for . It stimulates intestinal peristaltic motion, aiding in both assimilation and elimination.Cayenne’s properties make it a great herb for many chronic and degenerative conditions.Cayenne stimulates the production of saliva, an important component of digestion and maintaining optimal oral health.Cayenne pepper helps reduce atherosclerosis, encourages fibrinolytic activity, and prevents factors that lead to the formation of blood clots, all of which can help reduce the chances of a heart attack or stroke.Cayenne is a known circulatory stimulant. It increases the pulse of our lymphatic and digestive rhythms. By heating the body, the natural process of detoxification is streamlined. Cayenne also induces sweating—another important process of detoxification. Combined with lemon juice and honey, cayenne tea is an excellent morning beverage for .Extremely high in a , cayenne pepper sends chemical messengers from the skin into the joint, offering relief for joint pain.Cayenne is an excellent preservative and has been used traditionally to prevent food contamination from bacteria.A study using data collected from almost half a million people found that people who eat spicy foods have a 14% chance of living longer than those that don’t. Researchers also found that regular consumption of chili peppers aligned with reduced rates of death from respiratory disease, heart problems, cancer.Scientists at the Laval University in Quebec found that participants who took cayenne pepper for breakfast were found to have less appetite, leading to less caloric intake throughout the day. Cayenne is also a great metabolic booster and aids the body in burning excess fat.Animal studies found that capsaicin reduced serious heart arrhythmias and improved cardiac blood flow.When applied directly to the site, cayenne may help ease pain of a sore tooth.As a poultice, cayenne has been used to treat snake bites, rheumatism, sores, wounds, and lumbago. More research is needed to determine it’s effectiveness.This one is purely subjective, and those with sensitive palates may disagree, but many people find that a dash cayenne can add a little delicious zest to otherwise bland food.Do you enjoy cayenne? Have you noticed any benefits from adding it to your diet? Leave a comment below and share your experience with us.
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.Hi, Can you tell me how much cayenne pepper you need to have all these effects,Best  ,Mani1 teaspoon and 1 cup of waterI take my cayenne pepper 1 teaspoon in a glass of 100% fruit juice (like orange juice) in the morning – sometimes even 3 times a day if I need to “cure” something in system. The juice makes it easier to drink for most people.i take one table spoon with about 2 onces of verry warm water. is that enough?does all peppers (capsacim) do the same as cayenneHi, I use 1/2 teaspoon of cayenne in a shot glass with warm water.  That  would be easy to consume.  One may follow up a  glass of water to clear cayenne powder in your mouth and gums.   I take this  twice  a day  after breakfast and another before bedtime.   If i have sore throat or colds  i increase dosage to 1tsp/intake.best regards,
GeffHi, I have high blood pressure and am on high blood pressure medication, i was just wondering if anyone knows if the cayenne pepper drink would be safe for me to take. ThanksI use Cayenne every day. It is good for headache and tenense neck muscles and many other things.iS IT TEUE THAT CAYENNE LOWERS BLOOD SUGARS AND BLOOD PRESSURE AND HIGH CHOLESTERALI use cayenne for many things; moisture for sinus/nose/eyes/mouth, calm stomach upset and nausea, and also to slow down heavy menstrual bleeding and cramping (1 tsp +/- in few ounces of hot water as needed.  for period, don’t take more that 3 X’s or will stop your period for a time, this is powerful medicine)  I use organic 40,000 heat cayenne, I’ve not seen that you need hotter to have a positive effect on your health. be well.I am a male, weigh ± 170kg and 48 years of age.I’m taking a tablespoon of cayenne with lemon juice evey morning and my blood preasure is 120/80 without any medication. So, it is working for me!!!Hard for me believe and trust.Thanks for sharing. I need to get some of this and use it for a few purposes. Good stuff!Frik,  what was your blood pressure before you started taking cayenne pepper and lemon juice?
is it possible to drink it without burning your mouth?   more details appreciated.Do you think it may help with epileptic fits?I have osteoarthritis, I heard about this today, will start tomorrow and keep you posted. Bbottoms up. GtIts not possible to drink it without burning your mouth hence (its a very hot pepper) You just need to start off with a 1/4 teaspoon & warm water until the heat aclimates to your body I have been taking it since 2005 & I have never had flu or cold & never been hospitalised to date. So try it its’ the best so far for meTerence,
Thank you for your post!  While Cayenne pepper is known to help with detoxification I do not feel that it will deal with this concern in its entirety, in fact I think it would require a much more thorough process to bring a batter balance to the system. Initially, I would suggest a complete cleanse of the system in order to allow this balance to occur.  What we have found is that by doing a  many of the main organs of the body are able to function optimally, this can allow the body to start healing itself and overcoming health concerns such as this.  If you find that you have any questions please feel free to contact the  and we will be more than happy to help you.  Thank you again for your post, take care and be well! Thank you for sharing.  I have been using Cayenne for years for these very reasons.I just purchase Solaray Cool Cayenne.  Is this as effective as the spice?it will also lower blood pressure – the only thing I take for blood pressure is Cayenne pepper. I was on two drugs. I take two 40,000 Heat Unit capsules in the morning with other drugs and I take one capsule at night. (purchased at Walmart for $3.00 as opposed to several hundred dollars at pharmacy. Yes, my cayenne pepper is approved with family doctor. I also take Omega 3, 6, 9 also bought at Walmart. My Cholesterol used to run in the 500 range, Tryglicerides over 3000. Now? Cholesterol 102, Trygl 52 – I am thinking that between both, the have done the trick for me. I no longer take drugs for Cholesterol.read my post. I take two capsules in AM and one PM and no longer take drugs for High Blood Pressure. IT is not unusual to see double digit top and bottom. (of course hospital freak out)
each capsule is 40,000 Heat Units. It can rial stomach a bit, just drink a couple mouthfuls of milk, settles down. or just take when eating. I build myself up to 3 AM and 2 PM .
The hot is only warm about 15 minutes and done!try it. they are cheap at Walmart and so can experiment cheaply, even if it doesn’t, you still gainyou don’t need that much to do the trick – 1/4 teaspoon will do it with a lot less grrrI can attest that it does lower blood pressure as i take no drugs for it, only cayenne , it may also help cholesterol, but better to use Omega 3.6.9go to Walmart or favorite herbal magazine, buy Capsules 40,000 Heat Units. Then just swallow the pills.
I take 2 caps AM and 1
caps PM and my blood pressures always are fine. for me, not uncommon to see double digit top and bottom.
It is called: Cayenne Fruit, whole herb, 40,000 STU
455mg, It is made by Natural, it is glutin free and is organic.for a sore throat, open capsule and pour into 8 oz glass of water stir up good and drink it all down!
Yes it will be worm/hot but that heat only lasts about 10 minutes, garantee you, throat will feel 100% betterBrilliant informationsHi Diane! I can only say that I am also on high blood pressure medication but have not had any ill side effects from cayenne drinks. (Lemon, cayenne, maple syrup drink.) I graduated to one teaspoon per drink. 🙂 yum!
I buy it by the pound at a bulk store, and also use it with eggs, steaks, soups.
If you feel adventurous, next time you have strawberry jam on toast, try sprinkling some cayenne on top.It’s NOT how much, but how consistently one takes it.
Please keep in mind it takes some time to get used to it, and then with time as you build up the amount you start seeing results.Hi Julia! That’s a very good question! LOL!!
In my case my BP hasn’t been affected to the point where I can get off Atenolol.
Cayenne does not “burn” in the sense red pepper does. You will feel the heat but it lasts less and seems gentler.
A drink made with warm water, Cayenne and lemon juice only,  might grow hair on your chest, that is, if you manage to drink it.
I add a good tablespoon of maple syrup. Then the BBRRRRR!! is pleasant after the first sip. LOL!One TABLESPOON in TWO OUNCES of water? It’s like Cayenne paste!  WOW! My sister wants to meet you!I tried 2 TEAspoons in about  8 oz of water and it nearly did me in. Then I had to add a sweetener and the juice of one lemon.In the past, I have had sinus infections that go into bronchitis, usually triggered by allergies and lasting for two weeks.  For two years, I haven’t had an episode.  This past Sunday, I woke up with a sore throat, but felt fine all day.  By evening, I was so sick.  Plugged up head, horrible headache, coughing, fever.  I remembered someone telling me about cayenne pepper being used to cure sinus infections.  I added about 1/2 tsp to hot water and managed to drink it.  Yuck, nasty stuff.  I didn’t feel much better by the next day, but I did feel a tiny bit better.  By the 3rd day (today), my sinuses are clear.  I only drank the cayenne pepper once.  I was so excited about feeling better, I drank it again, hoping to get rid of the congestion in my chest. I am amazed at how quickly I feel better.  Must be the cayenne because I haven’t used anything else.4. Migraine Headache Prevention
is not true. We have migraine headache in the family – my great grandma, grandma, mom and now me. We are from Ethiopia and one of the main ingredients of our food is cayenne pepper. We use it for preparing different daily dishes. Both great grandma and grandma died with their migraine and mom and I are living with it. Hey Alan, that’s awesome. I use it for the same thing, blood pressure. Works like a charm. But if you don’t mind, I was wondering what blood pressure drugs you were taking? Because my dad is taking some of these same drugs, and he’s skeptical of trying cayenne or even talking about it. I know if the ones you were taking happened to be the same ones, that would go a long way to convincing him to stop taking them. Thanks!Lishana,
Thank you for your post!  There are a few different ways in which the benefits of Cayenne may help you, which may not be typically considered the norm.  In the publication titled “Clinical Botanical Medicine”, second edition revised, you may be able to review such applications.  In the book it suggests that a natural base creme with cayenne added to it, applied to the nostril has shown promising results in alleviating cluster headaches.  I am not versed with such application, but this may be the one of the biggest reasons why this didnt work for your family.  The other thing to consider is that every one is different, not every natural remedy will work for every one.  Also, using cayenne daily in your diet may allow your body to tolerate it much more than some one that doesn’t consume it regularly.  I wanted to give you some things to consider.Thank you again for your post, take care and be well! Is there any truth is the statement that capsules are not effective? They are so much more convenient, especially for a person being on the road a lot.Can breastfeeding mothers drink this pepper?You should take cinnamon bro I took some then went to the doctor one day and they were tripping out because my blood pressure was abnormally low.I used to get stomach aches when i took the capsules too; but then I started mixing it with water and drinking it and the stomach aches went away Its only a theory but im assuming this is because when we eat something hot the body sends messages to the stomach to get ready for something hot. But as i said that’s just my guess all i know is that when I started drinking it mixed with water my stomach no longer gave me problems. Also my acid re flux is gone and my hiatal hernia has not given me any problems and my ankle that used to give me problems (tore my acl when i was 17) no longer hurts.  You can get a pound of cayenne for 12 bucks on ebay and its 90,000 heat units. I usually take a tablespoon of cayenne followed by the a teaspoon of cinnamon the cinnamon overpowers the taste of the cayenne and is great for you.The one man (Quinn, I believe) who wrote a book about his experiences (Left for Dead) said he took capsules the whole time.  This cured him of his heart condition, apparently, so I don’t think it matters if you don’t drink the tea.  Any way you can take it is probably fine.  If you take the capsules, though, taking them with food is likely best; this is so the stomach doesn’t receive a shock when the capsules break open.  I think that’s part of the concern for those who say not to take capsules.  The other reason is that the medicine is immediate when you drink the tea, so those taking it for heart attack would need to do it that way, from what I understand.I would only do so under the direct supervision of a naturopathic doctor.  The two books I have about cayenne mention that it can be taken in small amounts for morning sickness (along with some ginger), but neither mention anything about safety in breastfeeding.  As with most herbal medicines, I would say that you should abstain from taking them while pregnant or breastfeeding, unless you are under the care of a knowledgeable naturopath or herbal medicine doctor.  Certainly, eating some hot peppers once in a while might be okay, but you might want to monitor your milk; maybe taste it after you’ve eaten the peppers and before you feed your child again.  I’m not sure if it would be hot, or if there would be no effect on the taste.  I’ve never tried it.  🙂  As far as drinking the cayenne tea while breastfeeding, I personally wouldn’t do it.  If there was some medical condition that required it (cancer or severe heart disease, for example), then I would discontinue breastfeeding to take the medicine in therapeutic doses.  Again, though, you should ask your naturopath or even the baby’s doctor about taking it medicinally.  They should know if it would be detrimental to the baby.You just want to look for the purest and finest cayenne that you can find.  The problem with taking it in capsule form is that they will usually contain potentially-harmful and unnecessary fillers/additives.  I encapsulate my own using the Cap-M-Quik filling device, some vegetarian capsules, and organic 35,000 SHU cayenne from Starwest Botanicals.  It only cost about $10 for a pound of organic cayenne.  I encapsulate a lot of my own supplements, and now I know exactly what’s in them; it’s also much cheaper this way.  You can buy capsules in bulk online; though a local health-food store might also have them.  Mine only sells a small bottle and I use way more than would be justified by buying them there.  It’s much cheaper to buy them in bulk.  The initial cost of the Cap-M-Quik is only about $20 and the capsules are just like a penny a piece or so.  A pound of organic cayenne will last a relatively long time.  The cost to make your own will be *immensely* lower than buying a bottle of premade capsules each month.I started swapping out salt for cayenne (in all of the dishes I eat at home), about three years ago.  Since then I’ve felt an increased in my cardiovascular abilities.  I’ve also built up a tolerance for some of the other peppers I’m eating now (the crazy hot habanero and ghost chili’s)…I’ve found that over the years that I’m able to sweat a lot more with my intake of salt lowered as well~Nature’s Sunshine Products, a worldwide herb and vitamin company was started by this one product, Cayenne Pepper. My dad had ulcers, and a friend told him to take Cayenne by the spoonfuls to help it. His ulcers went away. My mom told him to put the Cayenne into gelatin capsules so that it wouldn’t burn going down. This was the first time herbs were ever put into gelatin capsules. From there, they put many other herbs into gelatin capsules (after crushing them). Their company is now worldwide and brings in about 40 million a year and is about 40 years old.i have just come across this herb and the few days that i took it i feel very strong and sometimes it gets to noon before i take any foodReminds me of the old quote ” treat a cold and you will recover in 5 days.  Leave it alone and you will recover in 5 days.”  Was it the cayenne pepper or just your body responding to the infection as it should?  That said it’s always worth a try.Hey Cody,
Thank you for this information.  I started putting on my food today.  I thought it would burn like crazy as I had radiation treatment for a tumor in the base of my tongue and hot stuff is just too hot. But, this was not bad over my vegetables.  I want to work on losing “belly fat”… will this help?  I need to get to doing more exercise. Thank you for sharing all this info.  I am going to try the cayenne, cinnamon and honey tea and see how this helps also.  Any other suggestions?  Thank you. GGAbout 3 tea spoons a day, morning, afternoon and night, 1 teaspoon in a glass of hot water with a bit of honey or lemon will do the tric for high blood pressure and cholestrol and combine with termaric it will even help with arthritisThanks for the useful tips. I have a question, i drink a mixture of olive oil, fresh lemon juice and fresh apple juice, can I mix or add a teaspoon of cayenne in that mixture? Can one use to much??! I love spicy foods I incorporate it in my diet everyday. I use cayenne pepper every morning on my toast or eggs, and a lot of it.. Is this to much??? Also was wondering if cayenne will cause acid reflex?? I was told spicy foods have a really bad effect on the esophagus ??? Thx Julia I usually take two capsules of cayenne in the morning with food and sometimes with dinner in the evenings.Is there a min. number of BTUs that should be used? Mine is 40,000I would think drinking it as a tea at least once a week would be wise.Did any ony try drinking it through a straw?… That is the way I get through the tast and burning!i have been getting my cayenne from a place called “Cayenne Company”
they are the only ones that use African Birdseye and have different formulas love the stuff.I love the possiblities of all that cayenne pepper can do.  I am currently on Motrin for achilles tendinitis as is my husband and he was having stomach problems so stopped taking the cayenne pepper w/the motrin.  What are your thoughts.  Would just drinking the warm water take this away or should it be one or the other?is cayenne safe if a person is also on glutathione treament?Wow, Alan, I am impressed! I am nearly 70 yrs old and am a woman..am going to try your recommended dosages. I am not the Julia above..I am Julia L. in case we talk again 🙂HI freedomdove, thank you for posting. I’d like to know where you bought your Cap-M-Quik??? I am Julia but there are two Julias posting 🙂One tasty way to enjoy cayenne pepper is to add up to a teaspoon into a cup of hot chocolate. Add a quarter teaspoon to a teaspoon of cinnamon and you’ve got yourself one delicious medicinal drink.Thank you for this information.HOW MUCH IS TOO MUCH DAILY?It is so true! I incorporate cayenne pepper almost in all my foodWould cayenne pepper daily dose have same effects as prescribed daily 80mil aspirin?I put it on minor cuts; works better than a band-aid.Hi Julia.  Sorry for the delay; I wasn’t aware there was a reply to my comment.  You can find the Cap-M-Quik in all of its variations at Amazon.  There are a few different sizes.  I have two of them.You can find Frontier vegetarian capsules there, too, but I like Mountain Rose Herb’s capsules better (I also buy many of my organic supplements there in bulk powder form).  For cayenne, I use size “0” capsules, which are smaller than size “00”.  I use the bigger size for things like my Garden of Life RAW superfoods powder.Perhaps for prevention of heart disease, yes.  For those who can handle it, that is–and I’m one of those people who can’t.  Lol.  I’m a wuss when it comes to hot stuff (or bitter foods).  A little is okay, but a lot is not–so I do 2 capsules twice a day with meals (I slowly worked up to that amount).  That works okay for me, and should suffice for those who also can’t stomach a glass of cayenne tea.  For emergency heart situations, the tea should probably be ingested rather than capsules, but I’m not qualified to say either way is better than the other when it comes to that subject.That depends on what you mean by glutathione treatment, I suppose.  I am in the process of helping my body produce more glutathione (which is really the only way to have more) by taking R-lipoic acid, sulfur, selenium, NAC (sometimes), milk thistle, and drinking whole raw milk (for the whey protein)–and I also take 2 g cayenne per day.  It’s not a problem for me.  If you mean some pharmaceutical protocol, then I can’t tell you whether they would interact or not.  I’d say they might.Taking glutathione supplements is considered to be a waste of money.  Your body needs to produce it using the raw materials.  Milk thistle is for liver support and protection against loss of glutathione; the other supplements provide the building blocks for glutathione production.I live in Ghana west Africa were the best Cayenne pepper grows in the world. Need buyers, contact How much is effective for mild hypertension 140/82 ?how much cayenne is recommended for hypertension of 140/82?This is largely utter rubbish, apart from pain relief by rubbing on joints and as an appetite suppressant (who’d want to eat anything after a whole spoon of cayenne pepper in one go?). I challenge anyone to find any evidence that cayenne pepper is beneficiary to your health if you eat some (say a teaspoon, 5g)I could write something up, but why should I waste my time on you?  Look up the information yourself.I have tried, and all of it was bad quality evidence. That is why I’m saying that this is rubbish, because there’s no evidence it works.Nobody is forcing you or asking you to take it.  If you’re curious as to whether it works for a medical condition you might have, then you’ll just have to try it and find out.  Cayenne is pretty darn safe so there aren’t too many people out there that can’t try it out for themselves.  If it works for you then you have your own personal evidence.   I’m guessing you won’t, though, because you’re just trolling.  🙂  😉Although I do look like a troll, I’m not. I was just annoyed that I’d watched a video that was 95% rubbish. I would normally ignore this kinda thing, but I was curious to see where cayenne came from and I came across this by mistake. It’s a difficult issue because although cayenne has no effect for most things, it can be a good thing for a person to take a dummy pill for minor illnesses, rather than using expensive medicines which may or may not be effective, or worse: anti-biotics.How on earth would you know cayenne isn’t effective as a medicine if you haven’t used it for anything?  Do you *really* need some paid-off MD to approve or recommend a spice for you?   It’s not likely to happen any time soon since they know next to nothing about nutrition and herbs and preventative measures, which are as valid as–if not more valid than–pharmaceuticals. I don’t think you’ve looked very hard for information; there is literature out there about cayenne–much more than the references listed here.  One man cured his heart issues with cayenne and wrote a book about it.  His name is Quinn and the book is called “Left for Dead”.  You can find at least a few other books on the topic.  Capsaican has a wide range of functions, as you can see by reading through the article.  You can choose to believe it or not.  If I had written the article, I would have tried to include more references, personally, but whatever.  If you look hard enough you can find valid info.  Some of it will be considered “circumstantial” by those requiring rigorous lab testing (which nobody outside of Big Pharma can afford).  Like I said, you can always try it yourself if you have any of the conditions listed in the article.  If you’re being honest with yourself then the results should prove something to you.It should behave in the same way for the blood-thinning effects of aspirin.  I wouldn’t use both at the same time, for sure.  The cayenne would replace the aspirin if you chose to try it.  Be sure to talk to your doctor first if you’re taking aspirin for a serious condition.  I don’t know what kind of response you’ll get, though.  Lol.I am actually very healthy and don’t have any of the conditions mentioned. I do have a slight build up of mucus in the middle ear, (rather than the throat) which causes buzzing,do you think it would help with that?I picked a condition (gastric ulcer) and did some research. I found a single proper study, which found that it reduced ulcers in rats. Whilst this would be enough to warrant another experiment in humans, it’s hard to say this is proof. The fact that a couple of people took cayenne and got better is a good story, but is very far from proof. Maybe they would have got better anyway. Maybe they are over-exaggerating to make a better story and sell books. Maybe a miracle happened and they suddenly got better around the same time they started taking cayenne: if lots of people try it, it’s bound to happen sooner or later.I hope you know about the placebo effect and regression to the mean. They are both very good reasons why circumstantial evidence is useless.If capascin was a really good drug, big pharma would be selling it by now.I’m not here to give you proof or to satisfy your curiosity.  You’ve already made up your mind, so why do you even bother?  It’s a rhetorical question…no need to answer.Relax, I was just debating, which can’t do any harm. I always find a debate is a good way to find out both sides of a problem, hence my disqus name.has anyone heard of cayenne pepper helping to alleviate petechiae (they are red dots – little blood blisters – on the body)?Thanks.You’re not debating.  You’re insisting that something with medicinal values that works for a lot of people is worthless.  That’s trolling.  If you know anything about the medical system then you already know that herbs and spices don’t get all the research they deserve.  Are you going to pay for the studies?  Personally, I’d love to do that but I can’t afford it.  Until then, people like you won’t be satisfied with small studies or anecdotal evidence.  And I’m okay with that.  I don’t need your approval to ingest cayenne.  I can research things myself and experiment to see how it makes me feel.I agree with the problem of harmful fillers in supplements. Best to stay away from Magnesium Stearate and Titanium Dioxide. They are harmful to the body.This is a debate/argument if you want to call it that. Trolling is posting inflammatory comments to upset people. I want to convince you about the limitations of cayenne, and you want to convince me that it can be helpful for more than just pain relief. Big Pharma are constantly searching for new molecules in many areas, including plants. A quick google brings up that 40% of our medicines come from plants and there is a long list of plant based medicines (I don’t like big pharma though, because they then fiddle with the test to overexaggerate the effects and direct people towards the more expensive medicines) Capascin is more effective than placebo for treatment of pain, but it probably has no more value than a placebo for other conditions. This does not mean it’s worthless, as a placebo is fairly good at dealing with a huge variety of problems – I personally think that GPs ought to be allowed to prescribe more placebos for minor ailments.I’m not trying to convince you of anything.  I told you I don’t care if you believe any of the information out there for it.  I don’t care if you, and people like you, want to insist that all alternative medicine is placebo.  Your opinions mean nothing to me.  I have plenty of experience in this field and know when something helps me or doesn’t help me; if it doesn’t help then I make the decision to try something else.  I don’t wish it to work and it magically does.  It does or it doesn’t.I think you may be underestimating the power of the placebo effect – I was astonished when I first heard that a placebo can be as effective as a half of a full dose of morphine for pain, and that people on placebo medication suffer withdrawal symptoms. The Placebo effect is not something which you have to think about for it to work, it just happens.Placebos are good, effective medication for many things.For someone who doesn’t care about anything I say, you’ve spent an awful lot of time ‘discussing’ the issue with me.Cayenne pepper is definitely one of the top 5 most important substances on earthYes, I do spend quite a lot of my time “discussing” things with folks such as yourself (and actual paid trolls, too).  Quite frankly, I wish you’d just stop replying so I don’t have to reply back.  🙂Good info ! Thank you!Well, I was quite enjoying the debate, but I certainly won’t be offended if you stop replying, I’ll just take it as a sign that you couldn’t counter any of my arguments without repeating yourself. XDRight….lol.And how should I reply to your repeating parrot line that cayenne has only placebo effect?  Do you think if you say that enough that I’ll change my mind and agree with you or that somehow what you say makes cayenne not work?  You want me to agree with you and I don’t.  What’s left to say?    You’re just wasting space here, IMO.  Most people reading this won’t care what you think about cayenne, so does it really matter that you think it’s worthless?  If it works for them then it works for them, and if it doesn’t then it doesn’t.  Same can be said for many of the pharma drugs I’ve been given in my life.  Most of them didn’t work, however, whereas I’ve been able to have my life saved by “alternative” healthcare.  In the end *that’s* what matters.At first, I took 2 capsules a day. Each 40,000 STU. One in the AM and on in the PM. I built up my tolerance to 4 capsules a day. Personally, with the effects I experience, I don’t think anymore than that is necessary. I feel energize, I’ve lost weight after about 1 month of using it and I just generally feel clean inside. High does though I have experienced minimal heart burn, almost none. At first, excessive bowl movements but those subsided. Sweating and then eventually just a general all over the body heat and relaxation.I guess I was hoping that at some point you would say “Maybe it does only work because of the Placebo effect, but that doesn’t change the fact that it helps me and other people”. At that point I would be happy to agree with you.I don’t really know what I was hoping to acheive by posting my views in the comment section, but millions of people share their views this way, even if no-one listens to them.The placebo effect is very real, but I’m not about to credit every success to it like some people do.  Sorry if I seem curt, but I’ve had to deal with many people who think that the only success with natural medicine is the placebo effect.  It gets old.  Nothing personal.Cayenne is mostly known for its benefits to circulation since bad circulation causes heart attacks and strokes. They are the first and third leading causes of death in the U.S. It is what makes the Indian food so hot. They eat their food so hot that a starving man in America would not eat their food.can it be used for hair growthAm 38 years old woman and on High blood medication, am also use to have a bad period pain, can I use caynne Peper?Don’t discontinue any medications without discussing with your prescribing doctor first, but you should be able to start incorporating cayenne either in food or capsule form into your diet without any problems.Ok, thanks very much ghc-Health. Means I can start using Cayenne together with my Hypertension
 medication?Can cayenne also used to unblock Fallopian tubes?Can u use it with some medicines like tamoxifen Hey Adejoke, I would suggest talking to your prescribing physician. I didn’t find anything in my research to suggest there would be a problem but your personal situation could always be different.Thank you.  Will do thayHey Julia, I almost exclusively eat spicy food without any issue. So long as it’s not upsetting you, it shouldn’t be a problem.Hello lishanA
Try a piece of ginger, crush it and drink it with a little water. Headache will disappear…. GuarantyI make a spinach omelette several times a week.  When I whip the eggs and milk,  I sprinkle the cayenne pepper in.  I’ve come to really enjoy the taste!  I also add it to soups and  pasta sauce.I can’t take any thing that burns my mouth, now I discovered empty capsules at my chemist, so I fill it with the cayenne pepper, and no problem!I prefer to encapsulate mine, too.  I like the occasional spice in my food but taking a spoonful of it straight, or even putting it in tomato juice is too much for me.  I take 2 of the number “0” capsules twice a day, in the middle of my meals.  That way I have food there to buffer the shock of the cayenne.  Some people think you need to have your mouth involved or it can cause stomach irritation, so I just avoid that by taking it with food.  I don’t get certain therapeutic effects in this way, but at least it’s in my body and doing something.  It’s not hurting me, as far as I can tell, and I’ve been taking this amount for about 3/4 of a year now.  It equals about a teaspoon a day or so.  I worked myself up to that amount over a couple weeks, just to be on the safe side as far as avoiding a Herx reaction.  I started taking cayenne to modulate my blood pressure while taking B17 for cancer.  I’ve noticed that it has also helped calm down most of my heart palpitations.   Idk if that’s from that capsaican or the extra vitamin C that cayenne provides.  It’s probably a little of both.  (Vitamin C is important for heart health.)  If it helps control the cancer, too, then that will just be a bonus.I heard that Cayenne pepper is good for bruises and cuts. How do you use it or mix it?Are you insane?Awesome article 😀
can someone please tell me how does one need to consume the cayenne pepper? do we mix it in water or something? thank youIn capsules will be the easiest unless you don’t mind the heat.Try including Magnesium in your diet. Supplementation or food sources. Migraine attacks are generally triggered if you have a magnesium deficiency.Cayenne is effective in garden areas for keeping cats away. Unfortunately, it doesn’t work so effectively in keeping away the incessant troll on this very informative site. Heh-heh-heh.it’s very simple to reduce the effects of the spice on your palate, I use a full tablespoon of Cayenne and mix it with Agave syrup as a natural sweetener and mix it into a thick paste then swallow it all at once so that it goes down quickly….then drink a full 6-8 oz of water to wash it down…quick and painless!!it’s very simple to reduce the effects of the spice on your palate, I use a full tablespoon of Cayenne and mix it with Agave syrup as a natural sweetener and mix it into a thick paste then swallow it all at once so that it goes down quickly….then drink a full 6-8 oz of water to wash it down…quick and painless!!I sprinkle a lot of cayenne pepper on almost everything I eat.  I like the heat and the flavour. If there is any health benefits from it, all the better.That is a myth it anything it clears the throat of bacteria and harmful other things that are cancer related-combined with garlic it is the ultimate energy supplement and it’s natural! Fact is a fact it reduces blood pressure faster then any drug medication. Don’t buy into big Pharma’s lies.can it be used to get rid of toe nil fungaiIt might offer something to that effort. There are other herbs that may be more specifically suited to the task though, such as , , , and .How much termaric do you use and how often?  Do you add it the the cayenne drink or use it separately?  Thanksim going to start drinking a greentea every morning with lemon juice  little maple syrup and thiswhat is  the amountdeviladvocate need cayenne enemaWell, now you can take some real drugs.
Get high, baby!I put my red pepper in capsules and take about two a day.Can someone be allergic to cayenne?It’s possible to be allergic to capsaicinoids but it’s not really that common.Soaking with apple cider vinegar worked for me. Probably any vinegar as the fungus probably doesn’t like the ph. Also cleared up athlete’s foot at the same time. I digested a couple of teaspoons of ACV with water every day too. Like cayenne, ACV has multiple benefits. Takes months, you need to be patient, but so is the fungus, so it’s a test of wills!My 60 year old father is disappointed that you did not mention the reduction in inflammation of the prostate.Tell us more about his experience!Love this post 😉  I  also working on cayenne pepper i have write many articles on cayenne pepper i really love to work with pepper, indian pepper and share with you something different 🙂you cannot use to much i eat franks hot sauce on chicken & many other foods for almost 10 years straight i use a lot of it i can’t eat topatio because it gives me stomach ache i like it but franks doesn’t give me stomach acheWill it help regulate body temperature for those of us that are cold intolerant and have low body temps in the morning, then warm up later in the day. I want to function in the morning, however I am always freezing until about 2 pm… then my body temp raises also, and I can function better… (My mom has the same issue)I’m not aware of that benefit.one told me much about cayenne pepper and it was unbelievable but I go therefore and tried it, just 1/2 spoon I’m fine now no more ulcers, it is better to call it one day medicine.I have been using cayenne pepper every day for about 10 days now. Just a little sprinkled on my food – chicken, tortillas with melted cheese, rice, whatever it might taste good on. I LIKE cayenne and that’s the only reason I got on this “kick”. I’ve noticed a measurable improvement in my overall health – more energy, sleeping better, and my allergies have completely gone away even with the high wind and allergens in the air. BEST OF ALL, as of this morning I have lost 10 lbs in the last 10 days!!! Decided to do some research to see if I could attribute these changes to my use of cayenne pepper and I found this article. YES!!!It’s a GOD Herb in my book for life now 🙂 Started using it. Organic is the one to use. The other brands mostly negate the healing properties. I bought a 1.70 oz of Frontiers Cayenne pepper from Publix( The Green Wise area- Organic dry foods & spice section) for only 5.65 cents. You only use like 1/4 tsp with luke warm water from the tap or bottled water at room temp.(just not cold water). I add some lemonade(squeezed lemons) for flavor and to help with the bite of the pepper.  Plus lemonade water has wonderful healing properties aswell.  My new health mix drink at least once a day. 🙂Hopefully the capsules of cayenne pepper is organic(non irradiated cayenne pepper). If not the healing properties will not be that effective.GOD IS GOOD ALL ..TIME.GOD IS GOOD ALL THE TIME.Agreed, organic is best, if not a must.Can the cayenne pepper help my COPD breathlessness? if so how will I use it, I find it too hot to take just the powder.I’ve been wondering about my ability to use cayenne, because of my medical conditions. I am currently taking 200mg Metoprolol – 100mg in am, 100mg in evening, 25mg Losartan, 20mg Omeprazol, 80mg Atorvastatin and 90mg Brilinta. I take all of them everyday, I’ve had 2 heart attacks, 4 strokes, and have had two angioplasties and 4 stents so far. I was wondering if I would be able to benefit from the effects of cayenne or if it would not be a good idea.  I know I should probably ask my doctors about this but I was wondering if anyone else has these same problems and has been taking cayenne.Thank you for any response.With those specific of concerns… yes, you absolutely must check with your healthcare advisor to determine what’s going to be best for you!Thank you for your reply, I will check with my doctorsDo you take capsules or powder?Thank you everyone. I am going to use Cayenne pepper religiously now. I suffer from nearly everything above. Headaches/Migraines, flu symptoms, high blood pressure. I’ll also be recommending it to people as well.Hi,  I have peripheral neuropathy, affecting my feet,  I have heard tell that capsicum powder made into a cream can help relieve the really bad pain I get. If you try it, please let us know how it works out for you. I’d be interested to know.Can anyone tell me how well it works for migraine as i am a chronic sufferer and nothing seems to workAgree. I use it to clear my throat before I go into the studio to sing or before a performance. Mix it with lemon, honey and water, and I’m good to go 🙂in am in a very difficult situation. I had gastric bypass surgery that caused an enormous ulcer that is in a dangerous place to operate. hence I now have feeding tube and no life for 2 years. my gag reflex is at 100% I can barely swallow with out throwing up. Does anyone think it would be worth my while to try the capsules and if so what kind and how much or I can put any liquid in my feeding tube would that be beneficial?Alan, if you take Moringa Powder twice a day, you could alleviate taking Omega altogether. Look it up online Moringa powder my superfood Capsules can cause different effects, the tea is better. Dont worry I been taking this tea for over 2 years daily and still nasty for me. It is not a recreational drink but very good stuff for your health.Approved by your doctor, that’s surprising your lucky! Most doctors I have see, apart from the nurse at my surgery are all part of the Big Pharma machine.. I have had abdominal pains for over a month, which comes with nausea, weakness, loss of breath, tremors and weight loss, I have lost 2 stone in weight. Needless to say I haven’t been fit for work..Being told by my Doctor to not eat spicy food, though every time I do my stomach feels better and I keep reading articles online about the benefits of chill peppers especially for abdominal problems. So I have to ask myself, are they telling me the truth??So I have just taken my first capsule full of Cayenne pepper, where I am currently feeling a warm sensation in the stomach rejoin.Will have to wait and see if my symptoms subside..!I’ve just bought some Cayenne and was thinking how to take it.. So I decided to crack open a capsules that contained Omeprazole, that my Doctor prescribed me, which I’ve stopped taking as it was doing nothing..! Hay Presto! I now have a capsule to  put my pepper in..Pingback: ()I grew up  in southern Europe, and we  ate  spicy food   since  I remember. When I say spicy, I mean  with  cayenne pepper. I  have nothing but good to say about  this spice.I  love to use  it  in my Low sodium Veggie  juice, making it very spicy.  It helped me lose weight  2 years ago. Never gained it back,  using the same type of juice  on regular basis.  Have no problems with digestion,  joint  pain, headaches, and  I  would say that   this  probably  is  the reason why..
 I am very thankful  and  recommend   that  people  get used to  cayenne- spicy  foods, starting  at first   with small amount, then  increasing it,  for   sake of their health.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()is it bad that i literally put organic cayenne pepper in everything?Probably not. Do you mean literally literally?ramen, chicken, pastas… even sometimes in my grilled chicken caesars… asparagus… but never cereal. lolPingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Will cayenne pepper help me with Hemorrhoids? They come out from time to time like, not like a super severe case. Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()don’t sing, unless u got some funk in you but i doubt that so quit singingPingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()I’ve been adding cayenne pepper and honey to my morning coffee. It opens up my head and alleviates my morning allergies. It also lowers my blood pressure. I have also noticed a significant decrease in swelling in my joints. Because my sinuses are open, my eyes are brighter and I don’t have bags under my eyes. Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()That’s a great idea. It’s funny how the taste sits in there just fine. Suja makes a juice called Spark that mixes cayenne and strawberries; it’s really good.Pingback: ()You should use organic cayenne .Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Not even kidding, I love Frank’s hot sauce so much I just sip it straight. Lol. Best hot sauce ever. I used to have BAD acid reflux for years, but for some reason once I started sipping Frank’s daily it went awayPingback: ()I HAVE ATRIAL FIB . MY HEART DOSENT PUMP CORRECTLY . BLOOD CAN POOL IN RIGHT ATRIUM AND CAUSE A BLOOD CLOT. I AM ON CUMADIAN BUT I NEED BY BLOOD CHECKED ONCE A WEEK . DO YOU THINK CAYENNE PEPPER WOULD BE GOOD ? I USED TO TAKE IT YEARS AGO . I KNOW IT WOULD BE GOOD FOR ME !Is cayenne good, sure, it can offer a lot. Is it going to be what fixes all your problems? There are way too many unknowns and it’s hard to say!Pingback: ()I use the cayenne pepper capsules twice a day. They work! The only thing that got my blood pressure down in 30 minutes when I struggled for 3 days with prescription medications that did nothing. Pingback: ()Pingback: ()It is a natural belly fat burner. Great on burgers with onion powder, garlic powder, and original Mrs. Dash. You will never miss the salt! It is so delicious. Also use all 4 spices in macaroni and cheese and you will love it!The first time I used this (last night) I woke up with reflux when I don’t usually have it. I could taste the pepper. But it wasn’t that much more severe than what I normally get if I get it.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Has anyone used cayenne pepper To treat chronic yeast ? I am prone to yeast infections at least once a month and am looking for cures to add to my diet to prevent them. Thank youHi, can you please tell what exactly are you taking doses and when? with food or empty stomach?I bought a pack of gelatine capsules (Size 2) off ebay and was filling two capsules a day, which I took in the morning just before breakfast.Now my symptoms have subsided I now only take one every morning..!thank you very much : )Alan, what was your BP readings before taking the Cayenne?i have a serious heart condition and take a few drops of Cayenne extract in water when I have palpitations or my heart beat goes irregular. It’s incredible but it rapidly restores the beat to normal. I learnt this tip from a regular cardiologist who had saved lives this way. Now I carry the tiny bottle everywhere – just a few drops in water is all you need.Pingback: ()Fanks has way to much sodium (salt)Too, dammit.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()thank you very much : ) I appreciate very much your help!hi Sonia, did the Cayenne pepper work for your symptoms?I have had acid reflex, GERD and IBS for years. I would have okay days and i would have miserable days. Dealing with these issues for years. I friend told me to take a tsp Ceyenne pepper with warm water daily. It has been a month yesterday and i feel great. I didn’t think i would be able to take the pepper i don’t like spicy foods. I started with 1/2 tsp and now I’m up to 1tsp. It’s great and well worth itPingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Hi Dear, what cayenne capsules are you using? how much is every capsule
and how hot is it? Also do you take daily or only when you noticed the high blood pressure?Hi I told my friend about the benefits of Cayenne and  sent him this article. He was very skeptical as he says he read that in Louisiana where they use a lot of Tabasco pepper they suffer a great deal of stomach cancer and other digestive problem. Can you please refer to his claim?Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()hello I am from Papua New Guinea. I’m very new to these cayenne pepper and therefore am writing to ask how to prepare it. I have honey, turmeric and lemon so for a starter, I want to know how much of each substance should I put?Pingback: ()Pingback: ()I used cayenne pepper in some hot tea with honey to cure a sore throat and it worked. It also madebmy tea taste great Over time, I became allergic to bath soaps and body wash which caused my chronic yeast infections.  I switched to Oil of Olay moisturizing soap and no more yeast infections.  Your husband has to switch over too for obvious reasons.  My yeast infections have been eliminated.  I just hope that Oil of Olay doesn’t go out of business.Hmmmm cayenne chili ! 1/8 teaspoon combined with Pure Colloidal Silver Atoms 4000 PPM (2 Ounces) …. a powerful free radical killer that actually fends of cancer cells as well as optimize the immune systemPingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()No no do not take cayene in capsules you will have serious tummy problems it has to go through the mouth first towards the stomach coz when you bypass the throat and get a big load of cayene it will damage your intestines and stomach reseaech if you think im not rightThanks for that, though cayenne pepper cured me, not harmed me.
Did you by any chance read this from an article written by someone protecting big phama’s interests, cos they will say anything to scare us away from using natural products..Sounds like total nonsense. Prove it.Can somebody tell me how anybody could make such a dumb assumption as Singlee has. If anybody ought to stop what they’re doing it’s you Singlee. Stop writing – you do it so badly.I think we all need to adopt the same attitude as we do with other medicines, don’t take to much and that once it cures you, you stop taking it.
Ideally keep taking it for another week or so and stop as I did as now all my symptoms have gone and haven’t come back..!
Obviously this is a spice so you would still use it in your recipes, though your wont be taking it like a medicine as I did in capsules..!You can always take to much of anything just take in moderation and reduce when your symptoms subsides..!Hi Sonia, How are you going, have your symptoms subsided after using Cayenne Pepper..??Ditto.. That comment doesn’t have any relation with realityPingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Cayenne pepper and garlic tea has cured my horrible strep throat that i had in the past and now i am taking it again for a soar throat and after the second glass (not all at once of course) I am already feeling SO MUCH better not fully yet.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()I’ve been taking cayenne for a few years off and on… my only recommendation is take it with food, and if you get too hot or jumpy lay off of it a few a days.  Like everything, too much of anything probably isn’t good either.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Yes I tried this pepper once before it worked very well for my weight loss. This works like a charm.Pingback: ()If you don’t like what you see here get the funk out.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()It’s awesome I have up ten bags now.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Get the cayenne with a lot of heat units stay away from the 30,000 – 60,000 – I use 100,000 or higherPingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Wow that awesome!!Seeing is believing never use gelatine get the veggie capsiles.Pingback: ()Thank You….That Reply Helped Sooo
Much!!!!!!Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Hello, can i take cayenne pepper when i have a leaky gut?Pingback: ()Stephen not a credible statement at allall. I have been using cayenne via capsule for over 20 years at a rate of 10 caps a day. Started with two a day. At 100,000 heat units / organic Benefits are multipleCayenne pepper can also stop a heart attack dead in its tracks. I take the capsules because I can’t handle doing the tea.I take the capsules to help keep the ticker going.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Kanye  Pepper*Sip 1/4th tsp in a few ounces of very warm water. I use it along with a teaspoon of regular French’s type hot dog mustard to prevent leg cramps at night.I have uterine polyps and trying to avoid surgery, read these will shrink the tissue, have been taking for one week hope it worksPingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()I use Cayenne Pepper to get rid of sugar ants.Thanks for your article.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()I’ve been having lung problems and I find drinking juice with cayenne helps clear the heaviness in my lungs . I told my lung specialist about how much better it made me feel and he scoffed at it. Typical western closed minded, won’t think outside the box medicine. I trust 5000 yr old herbal medicine way more than I do…what, ?  300 yr old scientific still don’t know what is what medicine?.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Notice how douche bags always troll in any situation? Funk? That isn’t singing, it is howling. The unmusic. Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Can use ginger for that, crush it up in your tea, will warm you up.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Just like some rock or yodeling what the heck Is that Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()What a nasty character you are Singlee. Pingback: ()why?thxok why? r u worried about mad cow? gelatin is good for stomach lining.not true. where is your evidence?Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()I am always move to tell my story whenever I see post concerning some deadly diseases. I Thank God Almighty that led me to Dr OSARO who with his humanitarian heart helped my mom that had diabetes with his Hemp Oil and he also cure me of hepatitis. I am so grateful that my 64 years old mother is back alive and healthy and can do all the things she like without any hindrance in her life. Dr OSARO,  medication is the only cure for cancer, tumor and from the bottom of my heart, I always sincerely say doctor Osaro is  the best and I will always give thanks to God for him to have long life so he can help many more people on earth with his medical service to humanity. with him I now believe that the hemp Oil is real and True, for all those who have problem relating to cancer, diabetes  and other diseases should contact Doctor  OSARO, You can email him on:  or call him on +2349082513668Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Their is a product called “Cool Cayenne” and it’s easy on the stomach.singlee Why would you be so mean to someone?How do you take it? I can’t eat is as my mouth is so sensitive to spicy stuff, I have a habit of running my tongue over my Teete and it gets sore so even some toothpastes I can’t use.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()I tried to take the cayenne every day for about a month and my stomach felt like something had eaten through it….is this normal when you take the cayenne?Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()I am DR AKIN MOMOH, i am from AFRICA. like we all know sickness an diseases have sent a lot of souls to early grave an many are still dying of sickness an diseases, many did not know that there is power in Nature Root an herbs, An for this reason that is why i want to let the world no the power of Nature Roots an Herbs an also to use this opportunity to let the world no that sickness you are hidden an you think is too long in your body that there is no cure or Doctor must have told you that there is no cure, an you think is true, my child it has cure,try the power of this Nature Roots an Herbs today, there is cure to that your sickness an disease with the help Herbs an power of my Nature Roots an Herbs. this Herbs has so many cure you can think off an this has keep me going an stronger an a lot of person has testify the power of this Herbs, i don,t no what Doctor must have told you, that you think there is no hope i tell you my child there is hope for you, i want to tell you today whatever sickness an disease you are suffering from there is cure for you,GOD gave us the Nature Roots an Herbs to cure disease an live a happy life, our foul father use this Nature Herbs an they all live long an live a good life an good health, i want to let you no today whatever they must have told you my child don,t give up, this Nature Roots an Herbs are very powerful an i have use it to cure many lives an a lot of person has seen the power of this Herbs, whatever sickness an disease you are suffering from i tell you, this  Nature Herbs an Roots can cure it,  an a lot of people are out there who are dining in silent i have see a lot of testimony about this my Nature Roots an Herbs. I am happy for their lives an all Thanks to GOD for given me this Nature Roots an Herbs to save lives. My child don,t die in silent there is cure an there is SOLUTION TO THAT YOUR PROBLEM. contract me today in my email address:  or my mobile number whatsApp +2348154989405Pingback: ()Can someone tell me how does it help the joint and rheumatoid problems?
Thanks
AgiPingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()This article is complete BS no scientific evidence. Look at this 9. Useful for Blood Clots – it decreases chance of blood clots but increase fibrinolytic activity. Those two statements contradict each other. If you people want real evidence to your questions go to places like UPTODATE and COCHRANE review for medical expert reviewed documents.Pingback: ()I also have AF. Last July I had a massive heart attack. When the pain became really bad I took a100 k hu cayenne capsule and called the paramedics. I was given addition medication at hospital including morphine for the pain, so it is difficult to know how effective the cayenne was. But I recovered very quickly. I take 3 caps of 40 k hu cayenne now with food per day and I really am convinced that they help the problem.Anyone use this for interstitial cystitis?Does anyone in this group take cayenne pepper for the Heart and Arthritis?  I have all the bad  from the family history.  It’s dang you do and dang you dont.Please let me know and how much you take.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()I started taking herbal cayenne and herbal turmeric about two weeks ago. I bought capsules at the health food store and filled it with 1/2 cayenne and 1/2 turmeric. My grandson bought them for me because he is trying everything he can do to help me with my chronic pain. The turmeric is a natural anti-inflammatory. But, since I started taking them, I have felt kind of strange. My blood pressure has gone up, my blood sugar has dropped too low and I just feel all around just weird. Is it possible to be allergic to them? I have a lot of problems with all kinds of meds. With a lot of them, I get bad side effects so, am wondering if I have the same problem with these. I always use herbs and spices when I am cooking but, have never used these. Comments, anyone???Pingback: ()How much cayenne pepper I can have per day to lose weight. Can you please go in more details about using cayenne peeper for weight loss.Pingback: ()I might need to start incorporating some cayenne into my diet!Pingback: ()I have been taking cayenne pepper as a drug along with termeric, venegar, and virgin cold pressed coconut oil.  When I first started taking these natural foods, I weighed 293 lbs. I am a diabetic with high blood pressure, gout, and high fatty blood problems. Now, after six months I weigh 249 lbs(no exercising), my blood sugar is normal most of the time, my heart rate is around 72 beats per minute(was 90 to 100). My blood pressure is the same as if controlled by man made drugs. The blood fat problems have been been reduced to good. Gout has not bothered me at all during this period. All of these natural foods are acting as if they are superior medicines. I daily take 1 to 1 1/4 tsp termeric + black pepper,, 1/2 to 3/4  tsp cayenne pepper, 1 tblsp of vinegar between meals and before bedtime. The coconut oil is 3 tsp daily with each meal. I am well pleased. I hope that you try this natural way and achieve the results that I am experiencing.    GlennI love to sprinkle it on top of my devilled eggs… It adds a pop of color, and gives it something a little bit extra.Cayenne pepper has been used for a variety of ailments including heartburn, delirium, tremors, gout, paralysis, fever, dyspepsia, atonic dyspepsia, flatulence, sore throat, hemorrhoids, menorrhagia in women, nausea, tonsillitis, scarlet fever, and diphtheria.[1, 2] Let’s take a look at some of the best health benefits cayenne pepper has to offer.You would have to use a lot.,Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Have you noticed any benefits from adding it to your diet?I sprinkle it in my coffee. Not a lot, a pinch, I have high blood pressure. It only make the coffee taste hot. Have you noticed any benefits from adding it to your diet?Beet juice is great for high blood pressure. You can buy it at your local grocery store in they organtic juice section. I choose love beets in a glass jar. But you can pick others. Pingback: ()Pingback: ()thanks..it saves my life it cures my shot breath,heart n blood pressure thanks pplunnecessary fear- mongeringPingback: ()Pingback: ()Put your tongue in the bottom of your mouth…hold it there for a full 5 min…every time you want to run it over your teeth…after a while this will re program your tongue…and help you to keep it away from your teeth….I learned this when I had a sharp tooth and got ulcers on my tongue…my Doctor taught me this and it will work.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Just started taking it this week. I put some in a gel cap and took it half hour ago,
sweating now.You forgot one…kills parasites…I had giardia…3 8week prescriptions of Flagyl couldn’t kill it…but I read cayenne pepper worked so I tried it…4 days, 2 capsules every 6 hours or so and POOF GONE!!!buy it in bulk, and make your own capsules is the best way to make sure it is pure…you can get empty capsules at the healthfood storePingback: ()I like that, ‘a lot less grr’…that’s been my experience too. 🙂Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Hi Sonia  Hope the cayenne pepper helped relieve your health problems. I was diagnosed with a heart murmur and a bundle branch block in 2003 when I was 56 and have been taking a family recipe that was given to me by a very elderly Greek man, who, by the way, looked only in his fifties!!!.  Have had no trouble since and as it is now 2017, am 70 years.   My GP also agrees and is very supportive of my using cayenne.  This recipe may be helpful to you and to others who may read this:-
Only use organic ingredients as supermarket stuff may contain additives etc.
3 tablespoons of Cayenne pepper    2 tablespoons of garlic powder
            1 tablespoon of ginger powder.     Mix together thoroughly and put into capsules.  Take 1 a day for the first week.    2 a day for the second week
                            3 a day for the third week and continue for as long as you like –
even for the rest of your life if you want.   I certainly am and I feel great.
Bonus – I live in a country that has a very cold climate and now I don’t feel the cold as much as I used to  : )    : )    : )How do you take it? I can’t eat is as my mouth is so sensitive to spicy stuff, I have a habit of running my tongue over my Teete and it gets sore so even some toothpastes I can’t use.I LOVE cayenne pepper and other spicy foods. I’ve been eating spicy foods all my life; now knowing the many benefits is really a great bonus.  Thank you for this article.There are capsule forms that you can get.  Make sure you get a product that has no extra fillers.  If you are able to visit a really knowledgeable health food store, I would start there.