Acid reflux is painful. Food and acid splash into the esophagus and cause belching, heartburn and, in some severe cases, chest pains. Some individuals have experienced pain so intense they thought they had a heart attack. If a person experiences acid reflux on a regular basis, the acids will irritate the esophagus, which may advance to scarring, ulceration, swelling, or hemorrhaging. What is the risk of acid reflux? Many experts agree, if acid reflux persists, it may lead to esophageal cancer.If you suffer from acid reflux, you need to take inventory of your life and determine what’s causing or exacerbating the problem. Start off with a . Foods that contain living enzymes are crucial in eliminating and preventing acid reflux. There are other measures you can take, here is a video describing six of them.Top 6 Natural Remedies for Acid RefluxLength: 4 minutesIncreasing natural production of hydrochloric acid in the stomach is the first step to preventing acid reflux. Replace cheap  with high-quality sea salt. I use and recommend  because it contains chloride and dozens of trace minerals the body needs.I also recommend taking a plant derived  before meals. This is extremely effective at preventing acid reflux.Processed foods and sugars are almost a guaranteed way to exacerbate acid reflux and create a bacterial imbalance in the stomach and intestinal tract. To combat this, eat fresh organic fruits and vegetables. An apple a day keeps big pharma away! Check out my brand new ! Taking a probiotic supplement like  will also help balance the gut with good bacteria.Enzymes are found in abundance in raw food, but the act of cooking food over 116° Fahrenheit destroys the health-promoting enzymes. Only living and raw foods are high in nutrient values and the enzyme levels that are crucial to combat acid reflux. There are many good enzyme supplements available, and the one that I recommend is .I recommend taking one tablespoon of  mixed in about 4 ounces of purified water before each meal. This will help calm the stomach and supports digestion; it’s also my favorite, fast-acting home remedy for acid reflux.Bicarbonate is a wonder product. Mix a spoonful in a glass of water, stir, and drink before it stops fizzing. Some doctors are skeptical so if you have high blood pressure or if you are on a sodium-restricted diet it’s best to get advice first.Aloe vera is commonly used to calm an upset stomach, diarrhea, and redness associated with bowel diseases such as ulcerative colitis.  and is another great alternative for soothing acid reflux.I also suggest a full body cleanse, beginning with a comprehensive . Accumulated toxins from processed foods and sugars can disrupt digestion and lead to acid reflux symptoms. A regular  can flush out your system and help promote acid balance.Eliminating the discomfort of acid reflux can be done without expensive over-the-counter medications. There are many natural remedies readily available. Feel better naturally; your body will thank you!
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.I’ve tried the vinegar and aloe vera remedies before, but nothing works as well as plain old Tums, or calcium carbonate.  It neutralizes that acid much quicker than any of these “home” remedies.i drink four ounces of Aloe Vera jiuce per day  ( George’s) and it definitely helps the acid reflux. i am allergic to vinegar though so I cant use that. I think there are some wonderful suggestions on this website. God bless.I have found nothing works better than good ole fashioned mustard, yes mustard, the same stuff you use on a sandwich. A teaspoon full at the first sign of reflux and it is gone. Really like this remedy if the reflux hits right before bedtime, it is always nice not having to drink fluids to save yourself a trip to the bathroom at three or four in the monring.Anybody ever have problem with constant mucus in the back of the throat? I’ve tried everything for it: a general practice D.O., who prescribed fexofenatine, two different acupuncturists, a naturopath who suggested I take digestive enzymes and probiotics, and an ENT specialist who decided my condition had nothing to do with allergies but was probably GERD. If it’s GERD, it’s the silent version, as I rarely have reflux. The condition is making me miserable nonetheless. Any suggestions?I should say I rarely have heartburn, not reflux.I used to have the same problem. Baking soda – 1/2 teaspoon dissolved in water
This really cuts that phlegm.
My husband is so relieved that I am not constantly clearing my throat!And a low carb diet or the paleo diet helps too.Half teaspoon of baking soda in eight ounces of water? Is Arm & Hammer OK?What really worked for me was cutting back on my coffee consumption. I was using prilosec and realized I didn’t want to keep doing that so I did some research and coffee/caffeine was something that was mentioned. Also I stopped drinking soda as well. This is a really useful list incase it comes back.1. Stop chugging the bicarb or you risk metabolic alkalosis, and with it a potential for dangerous changes to heart rhythm.
2. If you really want to get rid of your reflux, in the majority of cases,you only have to stop stuffing your pie hole and get up off the couch. Most cases disappear at close to ideal body weightTry Bob’s Red Mill Baking Soda. It is aluminum free. Access through the Internet.I’ve been dealing with the burning throat and hoarseness.  Like you, an ENT said it was silent reflux.  That was last year.  Also last year, I had an Upper GI Endoscopy done.  It came back clean but I think I’d better have another to make sure I’ve not had any damage to my esophagus.Yesterday, I purchased the Licorice Extract (DCL).  I also took a Claritin just in case it was sinus or allergy related.  The Claritin didn’t do very much but my sleep wasn’t interrupted last night by that nagging burning sensation. I started gargling with salt water too.  That is taking the edge off the pain.   I will also try some of the other remedies.  I don’t feel discomfort in my chest, a stomachache or problems with my bowels.  Just the burning sensation, hoarseness and constantly having to clear my throat.  Thanks for writing this article and for the many responses.  They’ve all been very helpful.Thanks for the help, will certainly try those.
I suffer from this regularly so I’ve been searching about the subject. Since now, the best improvement in my health was done by changing my diet. So I guess natural remedies for acidity may be the best solution. At least that’s what I feel…
I saw on this other site other natural remedies that might help as well so here is my share. For example just simple gestures (I took this info from there):
1. Try to sleep with a and extra pillow under your head to help gravity get the acid back down more easily.
2. Since this condition commonly occurs on a full stomach, make an effort to eat earlier and eat less to keep the stomach from being too full.
They have more info there about the subject, but since these are simple gestures that people may not think about, it can also help your readers.
Hope I helped!I have been suffering from GERD infalmations and for the last two weaks it was getting nearly impossible to pass. Three days ago I was like suffering highest heart beats after dinner and I was sure to have something serious in near future. One morning when i woke up, my mouth was terrible in terms of bad smell and taste.As i don’t have medical insurance so i tried all searches online for the similar experiences from different people. Finally, I found The LadySoma Detox and read about the reviews, just bought it two days ago and started taking four capsules twice a day as directed. Now I am pain free and feeling great. I would recommend this to people suffering from digestive disorders.ok,try lemons.i know what your thinking “useing a acid to cancel out a acid”,yes thats what im saying.if that not wor k use pickle juice.and finaly chew some gum.do these and i promis it will stop.warning:dont only use gum.it will help but only after the first two.aka:i had horrible acid reflux..until i did these.Hi, thank you for your sharing. I had my gallbladder removed
& suffered a common bile duct injury.  About a week ago
My stomach became swollen & I couldn’t eat any more as
before, I also feel something stuck in my throat & have
burning in my stomach that creeps up. So I went to see
my Dr. & was diagnosed with GERD. She prescribed
PRILOSEC 20MG.  HELP! CAN YOU OR SOMEONE PLEASE
ADVISE ME WHAT MIGHT BE BEST. THANK YOU. MELANIEMelanie,Thank you for your post!  I will be more than happy to help you with your questions, lets gather more information and go from there.For most people the pain of a malfunctioning gallbladder eventually becomes unbearable. After one or two trips to the emergency room the suggestion of surgery is met with certain approval. Unfortunately this may or may not end the pain and discomfort. The probable after-effects of gallbladder surgery are almost always never discussed which leaves the patient with the impression that all will be well after surgery. But it doesn’t take long to realize that all is “not well” and the patient soon begins to feel very betrayed by their surgeon and doctor who did not prepare them for “life without a gallbladder.”Contrary to medical opinion the gallbladder is of use to the body. The gallbladder is a small sac underneath your liver that stores and secretes bile, a digestive fluid that breaks down fats. Gallstones form when the chemical compounds in bile become unbalanced — no one’s sure exactly why this happens, but a diet high in fat often makes the problem worse. Since bile is actually produced by the liver, it’s possible to survive without a gallbladder, but often not without unpleasant digestive tract complications.The gallbladder is like a pump. Without it, the liver can’t secrete enough bile to properly digest a full meal. Many people experience symptoms such as diarrhea, gas, abdominal pain, bloating, indigestion, constipation, increased allergies, liver congestion, itchy skin and autoimmune diseases. Some patients suffer from dumping syndrome, in which food is “dumped” too quickly into the intestines from the stomach.Suggestions for living without a gallbladder:Diet is extremely important. Eat low-fat, high fiber, organic and healthy. Eliminate refined carbohydrates and hydrogenated oils.I suggest a liver flush a few times yearly. People without gallbladders may develop stones in the liver which will lead to a sluggish liver.Digestive Enzymes – Take 3-5 capsules at least 15 minutes before each meal. You will need to take enzymes for the rest of your life in order to digest the good fats (Omega 3) which are essential for good health.Reduce chemical overload on the liver (pre-packaged food, personal care products, lawn products, perfumes, cosmetics, etc.)Drink only filtered water – Try to drink 1/2 your body weight in ounces of water every day.Use a Probiotic – I recommend Latero-Flora.Reduce animal intake (meat and dairy) – When consuming animal products make sure they are free-range, organic and hormone-free.Eliminate white sugar and white flour.Consume a green drink or pills equal to one-two tablespoons daily. Premier Greens and Ormus Supergreens are a good choice.Activated Charcoal – Some people have found that this helps with symptoms as it helps to sequester bile acid.Chinese Bitters (Chinese Gentian with Bupleurum) in the morning and Coptis with Bupleurum at night to stimulate bile flow.Exercise daily for 30 minutes. Walking is highly suggested.Colon cleansing will be ideal in helping you maintain both clean and well functioning bowel habbitsFollowing the above suggestions will ensure that your digestive system operates to its fullest and will help to alleviate many of the side-effects from gallbladder removal.Acid reflux is not a nice feeling. Food and acid splash into the esophagus (the muscular tube that takes food after swallowing into the stomach) causing uncomfortable reactions from belching to heartburn and in some severe cases, chest pains. Some individuals have experienced pain so intense they thought they were having a heart attack.If a person experiences acid reflux on a regular basis, the acids will irritate the esophagus and this can advance to scarring, ulceration, inflammation and hemorrhaging.According to authors and doctors F. Balch, M.D. and Mark Stengler, N.D., if acid reflux persists for a very long period of time is may even lead to esophageal cancer.Here are a few of my favorite home remedies for acid reflux:5 Natural Remedies for the Long Haul
The first thing a person needs to do is examine their daily intake of food. What is being consumed? Starting off with an overhaul of dietary habits is a good starting point. Foods that contain living enzymes are crucial in not only eliminating acid reflux, but to prevent it from starting.Balance Your Hydrochloric Acid LevelsIncreasing your body’s natural production of hydrochloric acid in the stomach is the first step at preventing acid reflux symptoms. This can be done by getting rid of the cheap table salt that many people use and replace it with high-quality sea salt (or un-processed salt). I personally use and recommend Himalayan Crystal Salt because not only does it contain the chloride a body needs, but it also contains dozens of trace minerals that the body needs.I would also recommend taking a beet derived Betaine HCL supplement before meals. This works extremely well at preventing acid reflux symptoms.Change your dietProcessed foods and sugars are almost a guaranteed way to exacerbate acid reflux and it creates an imbalance in the bacterial balance in the stomach and intestinal tract. Eat a lot of fresh organic fruits and vegetables. An apple a day can not only keep the doctor away, it can keep big pharma away as well. Eating lots of fresh salad is also important. A great food guide is explained in my recent book “The Green Body Cleanse“. Taking a good probiotics supplement will also help balance the bowel with good bacteria. I personally take and recommend Latero-Flora.  Digestive EnzymesEnzymes are found in abundance in raw food. The act of cooking food over 116° Fahrenheit destroys these health promoting enzymes. All cooked foods are devoid of enzymes so only living and raw foods are high in nutrient values and the enzyme levels are crucial to combat acid reflux. There are many good enzyme supplements available, but I personally use and recommend Zymitol.Increase Your Vitamin DIncreasing vitamin D levels will optimize production of 200 antimicrobial peptides that aid in eradicating any infection in your body, including in the esophagus. Vitamin D is free and in abundance through appropriate levels of sun exposure. If this is not possible, I would recommend eating foods high in Vitamin d or taking a high-quality vitamin d supplement.Frequent ExerciseExercising is always beneficial in staying healthy. Improving the body’s immune system is like working on a puzzle and all the pieces need to fit right. Exercise is part of that puzzle. Make it a habit to take a walk after work. Increasing the amount of cardio exercise you do, will help improve your overall health.5 Natural Remedies that Work QuickIf you still experience acid reflux symptoms after making the appropriate lifestyle changes, try these five quick home remedies for instant relief.Raw Organic Apple Cider VinegarI recommended taking one tablespoon of raw organic apple cider vinegar mixed in a small glass (about 4 ounces) of purified water before each meal. This will help calm the stomach and help with digestion. This remedy also works for acute episodes of acid reflux. This is my favorite home remedy for acid reflux, as it works quick.Baking sodaBicarbonate is a wonder product. It kills odors in refrigerators, cleans stains, and it is the most natural antacid to treat heartburn and stomach upset. Some doctors recommend that this not be used if you have high blood pressure or if you are on sodium restricted diets. It’s best to get advice first. A spoonful in a glass of water, stir and drink it before it stops fizzing is best. Buy from a organic or natural food store.GlutamineThis amino acid naturally occurs in the human body, glutamine can be found in many dietary sources such as milk, eggs, fish, parsley, spinach and more. Glutamine is an anti-inflammatory that reduces intestinal inflammation with acid reflux.Herbal LicoriceThis is another effective home remedy for acid reflux, because it helps coat the stomach with a protective gel. Please keep in mind, that I am not referring to the candy, but the popular herbal root that has been used for centuries for various ailments. Most health food stores will have this in a tea or tincture formI also suggest a full body cleanse starting with a colon cleanse, then moving on to doing a liver detox, and then doing either a harmful organism cleanse or chemical and heavy metal cleanse.Eliminating the uncomfortable feelings of acid reflux is not as difficult as one may think. There’s no need for expensive over-the-counter medications when there are so many natural remedies that are readily available. Feel better naturally; your body will thank you.I also suffer from Acid Reflux.  I have been for years.  Mine gets so bad it makes my tonsils swell and burns my throat.  I’ve found that a small amount (1/8 Tbsp) of baking soda with warm (room temp.) water will take away any acid for when I have “attacks.”  I do like using a Tbsp. or to in a glass of purified water before I eat, it seems to help out later… You don’t get heartburn after.  It also made my digestive tract happier.  Just make sure you use natural apple cider vinegar with the “mother.”  Prilosec only makes my AR worse.  I’ve started using Pevacid and it seems to work.  I want to get off of meds; it can’t be healthy taking them your whole life.  Stay away from greasy and “red” foods as I call them… Pizza sauce, red juices, cherry flavored anything, Doritos, ect…You said it!  Coffee is the worst!  But it’s so awesome!  I’ve been diluting mine by adding hot water.  You get used to it after a while and your stomach will thank you!  I’m trying to stop driking it but… Well you know.Thank you for this wonderful information! I was able to help guide my fiance to feeling bettter. I realize that you don’t have to take that time to put forth all of this helpful information, so I would just like to thank you!! thank you!! thank you!! All my best.I keep Tums with me at all times.Hi and thanks for your post. Several years ago I was suffering acid reflux and gal bladder malfunction. I was in pain and confused. Most times I was not sure what to eat or even whether or not to eat. It was a bad feeling to say the least. I has little energy to do the things that I had to do. To cut the long story short, I had my gal bladder remove a couple of years ago, changed a lot of my diet and have since be fairly pain free. Once in a while I will have a flare but it usually goes away shortly. Thanks for your post enjoyed it. I will be researching the Himalayan salt soon.I have silent reflux.  Everything I eat (even plain bread) causes acid in my throat and actually burns my tongue  I have tried the all.  Prilosec, Nexium, Zantac.  I have to try to sleep sitting up at night.  Any advice?Very interesting points you have noted, thank you for putting them up.I have chronic mucus in my throat. I was told that it was due to acid reflux. The mucus is trying to protect the esophagus.
Has anyone ever tried Siberian Pine Nut Oil?
The hardest part is giving up all my favorite foods.I had this for years.I stopped eating chocolate and it’s gone.I have Gerd and the mucus and cough problem codine tablets only at night or co cardamol which have codine in work just one night will keep the problem at bay for a few days and just stay away from foods and drinks  that aggravate the Gerd.Thanks for the info. Simple methods yet very effective. Being a registered homoeopathic practitioner would like to focus on the treatment part using traditional and natural medicines. These remedies aims at not just relieving your symptoms of gastric reflux but healing your GERD at its root, so your relief is lasting. The resonance homoepathic remedies, advanced biotechnology and ayurvedic herbs work by neutralizing acid levels for fast relief from heartburn, hyperacidity and other symptoms of GERD; soothing the lining of the gastrointestinal tract, acting on the smooth muscles of the gastro- intestinal tract and strengthening your lower esophageal sphincter, promoting the growth of healthy stomach tissue, regulating esophageal spasms so that the digestive content moves in correct direction and promoting proper digestive enzyme production thereby restoring optimal functioning of your digestive system. Some of the frequently used remedies are Acidity 30, Alklearize, Alkoolize, Alsarex tablets, C101 Esophagus, etc.I not sure if all SSRI’s enable GERD but Zoloft seems to make it worse. I find that taking it earlier in the day will stop most night-time problems. I read that SSRI’s via serotonin cause the sphinter on your stomach to relax, they also cause your bowels to run for the same reason, which goes away after a couple of weeks. I have read alot of posts on other sites concerning GERD and sometimes wonder if some of these folks are on anti-depressants?  Other things besides the stress that exacerbate it include iced tea, Not teabags but the extracted kind.  I did this to myself this morning. Aloe Vera, licorice and much water later it’s manageable. Tums and baking soda don’t touch the pain.  NSAIDS will also cause this problem so you can’t use them for pain.AWESOME website!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!Himalayan salt has 84 minerals and trace elements,tastes far better than ordinary table salt, and is easier to digest due to its crystalline structure.  I’ve just been reading up about lemons and the value of taking juice and rind of one lemon a day, so full of heath benefits including stomach acid balance.  Thankful for the baking soda idea because I didn’t have apple cider vinegar. I had been experiencing discomfort and throwing up acidic saliva for nearly 9 hours (from dinner to the middle of the night). The baking soda relieved it and out of my stomach it came. Not pretty, but it works. Now I can finally sleep.What about only having two symptoms 1) bad breathe  2) maybe twice a week at night while in bed feel like food would like to come up (mild).  #2 wouldn’t bother me because it’s not often but #1 does.  I have been to the dentist (check)..regular doctor (check)..ENT (check).  ENT is the one who suggested maybe Acid Reflux but I stated I do not have ANY symptoms.  I brush, floss, tongue all that and within minutes I feel like I need to refreshen up.  Now it’s not that bad but I’m very aware.  The foods to avoid I need to eliminate for sure.i’ve had acid reflex my entire life- i have taken thousands of tums and i have some great news for you and a very important warning- do not take tums because calcium causes blood clots- which is an even more serious problem than acid reflex- trust me i have taken tums my entire life and i started developing blood clots recently that were not going away until i stopped taking the tums- if you do research you will see that the more calcium you have in your body can increase your chances of a heart attack and thats exactly what tums are- the good news is this, stop taking the tums immediately, save yourself from your blood clots and enjoy this perfect remedy that will take your acid away forever- get an aloe plant…its that easy- what a blessing this plant is- a friend of mine gave me a cute medium sized aloe plant in a pot a few years ago- when i moved i took it with me- i simply keep it outside by my backyard door and only water it every now and then- in fact the rain water usually completely suffices -these plants are survivors and they do not die- after i realized the major risk the tums were having on my health i needed something else and i didn’t to turn to milk as i used to as a child to take my acid away (milk will actually eventually make your acid worse- only use it if absolutely necessary- its actually bad for your acid in the long run) so i remembered that my grandmother has acid reflex problems too and she uses aloe as well- both the plant and the aloe vera juice- she keeps frozen aloe leafs in her freezer and swears it work better than anything else- now i snip some aloe leaves from my plant and freeze them too- the plant grows back and you never run out of your medicine- not to mention its good for you and wont give you blood clots like tums do- its better to freeze it and then when you need it just cut off the skin and swallow a bite and you’re instantly cured- if you eat it when its not frozen it has an extremely strong taste and its pretty overwhelming- get yourself an aloe plant and never turn back- trust me (26 years old- had acid reflex since i was a child)Liz,
Thank you for your post!  Lets review some of the symptoms your having and go from there.Poor eating habits can result in your bowels being backed up and filled with harmful bacteria. These bacteria can leech back into your body and cause repeated bowel infection with diarrhea, gas, and bloating as common symptoms. The bacteria can also cause bad breath, skin rashes, and other negative health problems.  Basically the bad breath is emanating from the colon, this is why no matter how much you brush you still smell it.  Heartburn, regurgitation, and dyspepsia are a few of the most common acid reflux symptoms.  Regurgitation. Another common symptom of acid reflux is regurgitation — or the sensation of acid backing up into your throat or mouth. Regurgitation can produce a sour or bitter taste, and you may experience a “wet burp” or even vomit some contents of your stomach.In order to gain control of this issue I would first suggest looking at your diet, trying to stay away from processed foods, and eating more raw and organic fruits and vegetables.  By making this change you will likely see a dramatic change in these symptoms.  A  of the system will give you a better balance internally, this is normally what I would suggest to some one dealing with similar concerns. (Apple Cider Vinegar) will help you greatly in over coming acid reflux, simply add a few tablespoons into a gallon of distilled water and drink it daily.  If you find that you have more detailed questions please feel free to contact the  and we will be more than happy to help you.  Thank you again for your post, take care and be well! Thanks so muchto me this sound more like a company or companies paid advertisment. come on dr. G or who ever you are just be honest to your proffesion. what the diffrence between you and paid medical reps. here i was expecting the herbs rather some specific brands. Thank you for your post!  We do not sell, nor do we have any affiliation with this company other than to say that we have seen really promising results when using ACV.  You are surely entitled to your personal opinion and I appreciate the time you took to visit the blog.  I thank you again for your post, take care and be well! Seriously, it peeves me to read that Bragg’s organic apple cider will help with this issue. It is a lie. There has never been any tests to show there is an ounce of validity to it. It escalated my reflux to such an extent I cannot convey to you the pain I felt.I like this idea. I used aloe juice years ago… I should get a plant…Bullshit. No scientific study has ever been able to show that apple cider vinegar will aide in acid reflux. You are perpetrating a lie. Probably started by Bragg’s themselves…Christopher,
Thank you for your post!  The unfortunate fact about most natural solution is that many do not have formal testing, who wants to test something that they cannot make any real money off of, especially when any one can make these remedies on there own?  I have actually used ACV for reflux and it has helped me personally, and I readily suggest its use to thousands of customers that have also found its benefit.  Antidotal evidence is there, just depends on what your willing to believe.  What I may suggest is trying it out, its not very expensive and couldn’t hurt, and it may actually help you.  Thank you again for your post, take care and be well! Liz,
Thank you for your post!  Many people fail to realize severe constipation can lead to feelings of fatigue, moodiness and it can also bring about body odor and bad breath.  The pressure caused by constipation within your body can also cause you to experience a loss of appetite. Yet, the back up of waste in your body can cause constipation weight gain even if you are eating less!  Even if you’re not experiencing chronic constipation, it can be beneficial to periodically cleanse your colon. Regular colon cleansing can help keep your colon healthy and free of toxins and impurities. Colon cleansing with an oxygen based supplement can help your colon perform as it should by liquefying fecal matter that has become imbedded in your colon. Thereafter, the muscles of your digestive system can remove the waste through the normal process. This waste includes any mucus or sludge that has become built up within your colon as well. Colon cleansing thus helps make your colon a more welcoming environment for beneficial bacteria, which you need, while also helping to discourage the reproduction of harmful bacteria which can contribute to the bad breath.  If you find that you have any questions please feel free to contact the  and we will be more than happy to help you.Thank you again for your post, take care and be well! Dude, how much ACV did you down in one day?
Also, it doesn’t have to be Braggs, it can be any ACV.  Was struggling with major acid reflux for 10 years on Prilosec/Nexium.  What fixed it?  1 TblSpn of ACV midday, and 1 apple before bed.  Give it another chance.Excercise is the best policy for all acid or gas related problems. If you excercise daily for 45 mins no need for other treatments. And apart from excercise, As for as GERD, I suggest few suggestions in day to day life that will change the situation very positively without any medicines. 1. Eat only 75% of your apetite (specially at night)
2. drink enuf water 3. most importantly, when you sleep , sleep on your right hand side down or on your back. (Never sleep on your stumock or on your left hand side) 4. Always sit straight.I just want to say that I had apple cider vinegar and I was worse.
Thank you very much, I’d rather listen to my MD.not too long ago I kept having this lump in my throat feeling, that wouldn’t go away. Since I’ve had problems with acid reflux before, I brought it up to my doctor. He did tell me, that it’s very likely my esophagus trying to close due to acid coming up. He told me to take over the counter medication for it. Not too long before that I had seen an episode of Dr. Oz about Ayurveda and different body types and ailments. One of their suggestions was to drink some aloe vera juice in the morning before breakfast. The other thing I stopped was drinking wine. After a couple of weeks I felt better. I wish I couldstop drinking coffee, but I don’t see that happening.I came here looking for recommendations and found them. Organic Apple Cider Vinegar or licorice root hardly seems like a paid advertisement. Your comment is unfair. Dear ghc_health,
I would like to apologize for Christopher’s tone. Civility is a lost art in some quarters.Really really, this is not a helpful comment to post.  My BMI is very much in the normal range, I regularly exercise, and I still have intense GERD problems.  I have tried all types of medicines and I am very grateful for this post about more natural remedies.  Please think before you make comments such at this one.I just ate lunch, and, as always happens, within 10 minutes comes the GERD. Relying on TUMS for months now, just read this about Bragg’s. I have Bragg ACV on hand as I use it diluted as a skin toner so, belching, I just gulped a tsp in water. INSTANT relief. Don’t need no stinkin’ studies. Just try it.She left out pure honey! That works well also! You can now get pure honey in capsule form at:honeyincapsules.comDo take a saliva test. It is a blood test. There might be gland blockGe.thanks a lot for the info, i’ve been experiencing this problem since I was a highschool student. I’ve gone through the ENT or even visit a dentist and up until now (i think it even got worst) I visited a lot of doctor but the most recent one told me that i have to drink the medicine for acid reflux that he prescribed then im taking this medicine for 2 weeks now but i think it even got worst and i dont know what to do about this, will you please help me? what do i need to do? im 46 yrs old already and im having this rashes as well hope this will help.. please, im waiting for your response.I had been taking nexium for more than 10 years until it stopped working in 2010, doctor switched to other PPI that did not help either.  I found that when I travel to asia(India, Singapore, Japan), I did not need any medication.  Maybe it’s due to environmental, my suspicion is airpressure.  I have tried the all of the alternatives none helped.  Since July 2011, I have been taking food enzymes with each meal and probiotics, Since then no heartburn(most of the time), no bloating, no gas.  I drink 4 warm glasses of water each morning before eating anything this relives constipation(I have been regular since July 2011 maybe missed total of 5 days in over a year).  Lots of veggies, fruit, lentils, whole wheat, very little processed food.  Try to do Yoga everyday.I read this remedy: enzymes, probiotics and 4 glasses of water in the morning on another forum and it has helped me.I suffer (suffered, haven’t had one in 5 months now) from chronic sinus infections and always had mucus in my throat. I use a neti pot twice a day with sea salt and baking soda and also had 1 to 2 tsp of raw Braggs apple cider vinegar and it REALLY helps. It clears all the goop out of your sinuses that drains down and I haven’t had one sinus infection since I began doing this regularly.Then you don’t have too much acid, you have too little acid. Try lemon juice.Actually, I have had a problem with mucus for about seven years, and only occasional reflux problems, but then I began having serious chest pains, seemingly out of nowhere. I would never have suspected GERD. I wish I would have known that mucus in the throat and inner ear was a symptom of GERD before it got really bad.I read once that if you don’t have enough acid you can get heartburn.
Too much acid – take vinegar
Not enough acid – take lemon juiceI also heard that Tums has lead in them, and taking them too often can cause lead poisoning!same thing with me…burning throatand hoarness..voice  and mouth becoming dry what can i do?I have an embarrassing occurrence with burping. When I burp quietly at an office meeting, it smells as if someone passed foul gas and people assume one passed gas during the meeting. Any suggestions on how to fix that?how can lemon juice help? lemon juice will make it worse bc of the acid :/drink alkaline waterWOW at this very moment my heartburn/reflux is so bad I’m vomiting, my throat feels closed up my chest burns and the sour burps are killer, can’t lay down and sleep..I’m on prescribe prilosec 20mg, but like a dummy Iran out and haven’t had any for a week,luckily its being fled today…can’t seem to get fast relief …tried most of this stuff on the list..any ideasWhat about aloe vera gel? Would that help?You are correct, ILELECTRIC.  Both apple cider vinegar and lemon juice can make acid reflux worse (they did for me) because they are ACIDIC liquids.  I have found that listening to my MD lis better than trying these so-called “natural” remedies.  If these remedies work for an individual, fine.  However, there is no science behind what they are touting.Have you tried elevating your bead by 6-8 inches and not eating 2-3 hours before laying down?The only way to test a person’s acid level accurately is through a PH monitor test.  By the way, too little or too much acid is rare and is NOT the major cause of reflux.  Reflux is caused when stomach acid leaks back into the esophagus.  This can be due to a relaxed or even a weakened LES.  Addiing lemon juice may only make it worse.  I tried both the lemon juice and apple cider vinegar methods and ended up much WORSE.I had to stop drinking coffee and tea (and carbonated beverages).  The coffee and tea relax the LES and allow acid back into the esophagus.I had the same experience, Christopher.  I know of NO tests that show that ACV will help reflux.  It made mine much worse (probably due to the acetic acid in it).  Lemon juice also made mine worse.I have a relative who battled silent reflux.  I’m wondering if that’s what yours is?  Silent reflux can even cause ear pain, due to the regurgitation of the acid which can even enter the eustachian tubes.  Silent reflux rarely causes heartburn.I hope things improve for you, Tim.I tried aloe vera juice, but it didn’t help at all.It sounds like reflux to me.  I’ve had food come up in my throat for years (but it wasn’t every night).  Also, when acid reflux was bad, I had an extremely bad taste in my mouth.  Raising the head of your bed might help, by the way.Unfortunately, ACV did hurt me and made the acid reflux worse.  If it worked across the board for people, there should be some studies that prove this.Unfortunately, stomach acid levels can only be measured by a 24-hr. PH test.  By the way, I tried both ACV and lemon juice and they both made my reflux worse.Some SSRI’s (and other AD’s) do exacerbate GERD.I tried Betaine HCL and it made the reflux MUCH WORSE.   (Also, I ended up in the ER thinking I had a heart attack.  It felt like a flame-thrower was going through my lungs).  In fact, in the Encyclopedia of Natural Healing, it states that if one has (or has had) acid reflux, then they should never take Betaine HCL.Mustard has made my reflux worse.If you don’t want to use natural medicine & prefer to load your body up with chemicals & drugs, go ahead, but it is really rude to bad mouth someone that is just trying to help. A few years ago, I was diagnosed with liver failure, diabetes, high cholesterol & had arthritis to the point that I was in so much pain my doctors wanted me to stop working & go on disability. I was also looking at a liver transplant. All doctors know is drugs & surgery. For every drug you take it causes another problem. I began researching, started eating about 90% “clean” including lots of veggies & fruit while eliminating processed foods, sugar, white flour & HFCS mainly. In 3 months, my liver was perfect, blood sugar perfect, cholesterol perfect, pain & inflammation MUCH improved & down 35 pounds. I feel better than I have felt in 15 years & without any drugs, just natural food & remedies.I thought it was the other way around. I have more discomfort sleeping on my right side.Half of you are honestly trying to help. The other half are idiots. I have had GERD since I was 15 and I know how to deal with it. These are things that I PROMISE you are good tips:
1. Milk – Seriously it helps a lot (a big ol’ glass full of milk (2%)).. there are few things other than milk and water that you will catch me drinking.
2. Avoid brewed drinks(coffee, tea), along with soda, orange juice, or chocolate. These are the biggest instigators, stay away from them if you don’t want that nasty burn. Another instigator (though not as bad) is tomato sauce.
3. Among the over the counter things I’ve taken, the best is Prevacid hands down.
4. An apple a day can often keep the heartburn away.GAVISCON,over the counter,papaya enzymes,40 mg of ppi instead of 20,and eat salad,spinich,spring greens blend,cabbage juice or shreded cabbage salad,avoid tomato anythingAh all hell I can say. I’ve been suffering ALL day since I woke up and infact puked up acids and couldn’t breathe for a minute… no air intake. I tried honey and barely helped. I just search engined and found this info to try the raw ACV and luckily had it here. Within 2 minutes my condition has been healed. I feel fine now.Human docs and animal vets are all the same teaching… just meds. It’s what gives them luxeries. They have to keep us sick or even kill us so they make money.There are huge extents of proven vitamin theraphy documents, but they are locked up in a medical library that NOBODY can get access to… not even doctors. Little info of these proven facts have been leaked out. Also vitamin C injections in large amounts a doctor has to give works the same as chemo… just minus the side effects.Ah…. it just fixed my condition! This is the proof. I was even throwing up acids and couldn’t breathe a gasp of air for a minute it was so bad. I’ve felt for hours since about to vomit acids again and search engined for a holitic remedy and tried the raw ACV and I’ve felt back to normal within 2 minutes and ever since.With Gerd  to help with symtoms you have to eliminate fried foods, sugar, chocolate, caffeine, alcohol, mint, nuts, processed foods, salt ( only use a quality sea salt) and pepper, spicy foods, citrus, tomatoes, even blueberreis and green apples are a issue etc. I highly recommend the book dropping acid as a guide!There is no BIG PHARMA behind them either…The acid that your stomach naturally is what causes the reflux. The acid in ACV is different. In my case when I drink ACV my stomach detects acid present preventing your stomach from producing a large amount of harmful acid. I am so thankful to have found this remedy.Marie.i have Gastroesophageal Reflux and GERD also have the burning in my throat and mouth even my lips burn i am on three differnce meds not  alot  of help i can eat now with out getting sick i eat a lot of crackers when i am real bad that seems to help with the acidpls help me, i started my reflux, when i do  induce vomiting so frequent, last 2011, and it occurs again last nov 2012. when i had my total thyroidectomy, until now , i have so much of medicine to take, and im so worried about my condition, i feel that the acid is on my mouth and my nose. please help me coz i dont have money to support for the expensive medicines, im just a plain housewife and 53 yrs old.doesn’t matter what you eat or what meds you take or if your bed is elevated or eating 2 hours before bedtime,it is all hogwash if your LES isn’t working right none of this will make a difference because acid will just keep finding it’s way up,and sometimes surgery is your only optionHomeopathic “remedies” do not contain anything.  They are quite literally water and sugar.Yeah, I used to have Flare ups so bad I almost couldn’t function, every day.  Two things helped a lot, 1. stop drinking like a fish.  2.  stop all of those acid reducers.  I feel acid reducers like Prevacid, Prilosec, Tums, etc. just get rid of something you need.  Obviously, the acid is there for a reason right?  You need acid in your stomach!  If you reduce it below the level needed, your body will try to compensate by going into super-production mode.  Once your antacids or acid reducing pill wear off you are pretty much screwed.  I weaned myself off slowly by only taking a VERY small amount when I had heartburn and the acid is pretty much gone now.  Make sure you eat healthy and avoid the alcohol,too much caffine, or prcessed stuff.not exactlyEat fruits and veggies with every mealI used fresh aloe flesh in smoothies for 2 weeks and it worked perfectly. I bought a fillet knife and filleted some large aloe leaves and cut them into 3/4 inch squares and froze them. I used one square per day. I did this for 2 weeks 2 times. Absolutely eradicated my reflux. I have no problems now!I did try it and it escalated my reflux so as to nearly incapacitate me. It was bringing me to tears. That is when I did my research. I decided to try putting aloe vera flesh in my morning smoothies, and it cured me after doing it for 2 weeks 2x.I liked your post because you mentioned quick as well as long term fixes.
I would like to suggest Yoga for heartburn and Acidity, especially Pranayam – Breathing exercise. There are many types of and ways of doing Pranayam.  I would suggest you to look for a Yoga instructor in your area, as Yoga will be more effective if it is done under the expert guidance. Thanks Alex – emedoutletI agree!  I-2 tsp in 6 ounces of water will offer relief. Plus, with the natural enzymes you will be fighting off other stuff as well. It is a great natural cure all.I’ve had this disease ever sice I was 12 (14 now). I think I am a little too young to have this, but ill see what my doctor has to say.Apple Cider Vinegar stopped my reflux in moments! Thank you so much! I have been attacked by this problem on occasion, but stress seems to have brought it to me more regularly recently.  I used Bragg Raw ACV….amazingly quick!I have had major problems with skin for 40 years, no thanks to skin specialists.  I went to a chinese herbalist and within days thanks to basic changes in diet (btw I have always been health/diet conscious, and taking EPO (am allergic to fish/fish oil) my skin improved dramatically.  I seldom use anything but natural remedies and find them more effective and safe.  The idea is for the body to be in homeostasis, which basically means allowing the body to heal itself.  The minute you introduce drugs etc the body no longer is required to perform a particular function, so it doesn’t.  So please do not knock natural health based on one or two no goes.  Because medical errors occur all the time, wrong drugs are constantly prescribed and death by medical misadventure either through wrongful diagnosis, drugs, operations are a daily occurance and more people die through this per year than you would ever hear about or believe.GERD natural remedies can help to
control the condition by providing relief from the symptoms or by lessening
their severity. Lifestyle changes can also help to control the condition to a
large extent. The use of natural treatments in combination with lifestyle
changes can help greatly however. Some natural remedies such as Alklearant (Chandanadi Tablet) and Alkoolize (Mouktikayuktha
Kamdudha are effective.Did you use “raw organic apple cider vinegar”? That makes the difference.No lemon juice, it can make it worse. You need to do the research.You said apple cider vinegar. One needs to take “raw organic apple cider vinegar”.  That’s what makes the difference.It is our fault that we have illnesses and diseases because we don’t take care of ourselves and don’t eat right and do what is good for us. We have only ourselves to blame. But yes, I believe in natural remedies. I take natural remedies for my health and medicine but I still don’t do all that I’m supposed to do to get healthy.  But taking the vitamins and natural herbs and such does help me.  For acid reflux, I am going to get the stuff I need for that problem I started having recently. The probiotics, enzymes and raw organic apple cider vinegar.  I’m taking enzymes and probiotics, but I just started taking these that I bought from the general grocery store in my town and they don’t seem to be helping much. But I will get the stuff that Dr. Edward recommends first thing tomorrow.Believe this or not, but I eat at least 1/4 or 1/8 of an apple every night before I go to sleep and I don’t get acid reflux. Go figure. I read this in an article a few years back and I started doing this and it’s worked for at least 5 years.  But recently I started having acid reflux during the day and I have to do something about this. I have an appt to do a colonoscopy on the 22nd of this month. Maybe something is going on in there that is interfering with my digestion. I’m taking probiotics and enzymes but they don’t seem to be helping me during the day.1-2 tblsp ACV (Braggs) with ONLY 3 drops oregano oil and juice…apple is good. Swig it down 2xs a day. Take dgl tablets until the bottle is gone. Cured my severe acid reflux.I have same problem like u but what means raw
ACV please reply memy grandson who is only 17 years old and his mother suffer from acid reflux…up all night, vomiting and diarriha…no medical insurance…Any natural remedies for severe acid reflux/heartburn.I’m surprised this article did not mention anything about eating too many carbs. While the article mentions a diet change, some fruits may be too acidic and many may quickly process through the stomach and leave a lot of stomach acid with nothing to work on. I used to have very bad acid reflux, including bile coming up into my mouth and burning my throat, until I cut out many carbs.  After altering my diet, I quit using antacids and no longer suffer the pain. I just make sure to eat more solid proteins and take in something my stomach can work on. I bet a lot of people who do have acid reflux probably eat a lot junk food (carbs), breads (more carbs), drink soda (acidic and carbonated) or coffee (acidic). Quiting them won’t produce immediate results, but over a period of few months the results can be remarkable.Just managing symptoms is not curing. Do a little research try the Bragg’s Organic apple cider vinegar and get healed.I don’t get heartburn, just constant mucus in the back of my throat. I’ve had the condition diagnosed as silent reflux and candida. Whatever it is, it’s driving me crazy.Trading trix are you following the guidelines of the prophet(pbuh)I had acid reflux so bad that it caused me to have vasovagal feinting spells. My blood pressure would plummet and I would fall and bust my head open. Then came the upper GI and the prescriptions. Nothing helped. Even after I quit my stressful job the reflux continued almost nightly. My miracle cure? Activated charcoal. It may not immediately cure an attack in the middle of the night, but a dose can knock my acid reflux out for months, sometimes for 6 months. I no longer suffer from acid reflux. I’m certain it was the elimination of stress and the charcoal. Now a single dose of activated charcoal in the rare times reflux flares up and I’m fine. After the dose I will not have an episode for a very long time. This is a miserable disease. It robbed me of countless hours of sleep for years. Activated charcoal is cheap and used in hospitals for poisons and overdoses. I wish you all peace and relief!Miraculously, I have found that simply eating a wedge of an apple at bedtime COMPLETELY eliminates *any* and *all* heartburn/acid reflux! Better than ANYTHING else I’ve tried. Eating low carb also eliminates it, but when I’ve strayed into high carbs over a weekend or something, a piece of apple saves the day (night).Can anyone give insight on the aloe Vera juice from article above? It says to take 1 oz with water. So that bottle would last for only 16 servings? The suggested servings with the concentrated bottled is different than article. I am miserable and need relieve but I don’t have a lot of money. I am concerned this will break the bank for me. yes… That is no difference with antivirus company who also made viruses so their antivirus product will be sold..I agree with you 10000000001%….Step 1 by eliminating sugar loaded food, refined sugar, processed food, gluten, white flour, caffeine…some how reduced my head ache by 90%, acid reflux by 99%,  asthma  by 80% and now slow and steady weight loss… detox of colon, liver, gallstones makes 100% sense – 8 years ago I did colon detox by brand M-L—a ( result – loss 12kg). what i did not know (no internet excess back then) was the product contained all the fruits and vege which helped in colon and liver detox mentioned by Doctor Edward Group.  Surprisingly  i maintained the weight loss for 2 years and was in good health.(21 – 26 May 2013) Last week i did gallstone detox (natural therapy using apple juice, epsom salt , lemon and olive oil   –  excreted  1 inch x 4 stone so far. My stomach bloating seems reduced. So for my second round of liver detox i am going to use GHC Livatrex set  together  with the natural ingredients i mentioned above. Read on Livatrex (Instruction  column, the natural ingredient and how to use is well explained there) will keep you guys posted on my progressjust imagine not servicing your car for 35 yearsBest regardsAshliey @ Kuala Lumpur, MalaysiaAge 35I would love to try the recommended cleansing treatments, but averaging around $100 a treatment is waaaaay out of my budget. But I guess that’s just part of being poor, screwed by the big pharmas and by the organics. I guess I’ll continue eating cheap food(all I can afford) and die an early painful death because I was unluckily born into the lower class and can’t seem to find a way out. May those of you who can afford this stuff live a long and prosperous life.One home remedy I learned from a German nurse is to slowly chew a piece of raw potato, about the size of a large french-fry. It helps my husband with his nighttime acid reflux attacks.Apple Cider Vinegar is Alkaline, not acid as most believe. And instead of blaming on it, check the food intake, and the liquids you drink. Thanks.Sleep on your LEFT SIDE NOT YOUR RIGHT SIDE.I suffer badly from acid reflux when sleeping. I now eat a large apple before going to bed and it helps greatly. Seems counter-intuitive as apples are actually acidic, but try it…you’ll be surprised at just how effective it it.Thanks for the tip! Has anyone else tried this or had success with other methods?Simply pass gas instead. It’s not always better to burp it and taste it rather than fart it and waste it. And always remember that it’s better to bear the shame than it is to bear the pain. Or, simply jeer at one of the people to either side of you, insinuating that they were the culprit.Hey MORON.. Its NEVER a good idea to use Baking Soda because it raises the pH too quickly and causes REBOUND acid secretion.. look it up!where did u hear this? i looked and couldn’t find anythingBaking soda? After or before meal how many tyms a day how longEveryday? How many tyms? Sounds like you have a gluten issues Vickie, look into a gluten free diet its what my sons trying right now. lay on your side and maybe a slice of cheese if you can stomach it.  I cant drink milk but I can eat cheese, yeah i dont know eitherHealed???? Please, might have felt better  but did not heal that fast…..Are you saying that when you do the baking soda idea that you through it up to help out or does it just calm it down?I get real bad chest pains where I cant breath, I ran out of medicine for my GERD at least I think that is what I was told I had.  But last night it hurt so bad I cried for nearly 45 min. to an hour everything I did to me didnt seam to help. I took the liquid Tums (took more than it said to take because I was so bad) took regular tums and did know it or not drank some chocolate milk because I dont like the taste of regular milk. One time it happened and it hurt so bad I couldnt breath and had to go to the ER they gave me a GI cocktail and it helped that is when I heard I had Gerd or acid reflex cant remember. But If anyone can tell me a good home remedy that i can keep on hand I would rather do that then take alot of OTC drugs. Thanks!A year to the day of yours Tim, I woke up choking on acid back wash! Nothing like this ever happened before! We had gone to dinner and our appetizer was a blooming onion. Can we say I will NOT be having that greasy thing again. I “enjoyed” my last one. Tonight as soon as I stopped choking on the acid and stood up – the burning in my throat was phenomenal! I drank water from the sink, but to no avail! Between burning gulps I went down stairs and got my lactose free milk and drank from the carton, then as soon as I was able, I took two or three teaspoons of honey. Another teacup of milk, that I drank more slowly, and now, as I type this here, I feel the burning go away and my stomach relaxing. Ok body, I got the message! I will change ALL OF MY EATING AND DRINKING HABITS. Thank you for this frightening kick in the pants!Bragg apple cider vinegar is the one really work, 2 tablespoon in one cup of water with 1 spoon of honey, drink it after eat 1 apple do this 3 times a day empty stomach is much better you can tell the difference,do it atleast 10 days be patience,drugs will make it worse it will just cover the pain. change your diet too, eat organic veggies and fruits, drink organic barley grass to alkaline your body.raThank to dr.alabokun for his good work I really believe HIV have cure I
 was HIV positive over since 1year plus before I come across a comment
dr.alabokun that he have cure to any disease and virus but when I saw it
 i have it in mind that he can’t cure HIV I just decided to give a try I
 contact him that night lucky to me he said yes but I don’t believe him I
 think it was a scam or some thing like that but I still hold on to see
the work of dr.alabokun if he is saying the true he ask for different
things and some question about me I give him all the detail he needed
and I wait to see his reply to my problem all the things is done he ask
me to go for check up I went for hiv test I cant believe I was negative
the midical doctor was surprasie and doctor even ask for dr alabokun
email which i give to him, he he is help people that contact him also he
 can still help you on your cure thanks dr.alabokun for helping me for
the cure at this young age if you need help contact him now  or comtact +2348071145063Reply · Like · Follow Post · June 2 at 5:06amI can tell you the organic aloe vera gel I take has dramatically improved and healed my acid reflux symptoms, so much so I rarely need to take my prescription any more.If I wake up in the middle of the night with a bad attack I can get relief by eating a peeled apple. I peel it then cut it into slices. By the time I’m approaching the last few slices the attack is subsiding. The effects usually last the rest of the night. t hanks to Dr.alabokun for his good work I really believe HIV have cure I was
HIV positive over since 1year plus before I come across a comment
dr.alabokun that he have cure to any disease and virus but when I saw it
 i have it in mind that he can’t cure HIV I just decided to give a try I
 contact him that night lucky to me he said yes but I don’t believe him I
 think it was a scam or some thing like that but I still hold on to see
the work of dr.alabokun if he is saying the true he ask for different
things and some question about me I give him all the detail he needed
and I wait to see his reply to my problem all the things is done he ask
me to go for check up I went for hiv test I cant believe I was negative
the medical doctor was surprise and doctor even ask for dr alabokun
email which i give to him, he he is help people that contact him also he
 can still help you on your cure thanks Dr.alabokun for helping me for
the cure at this young age if you need help contact him now  or contact +2348071145063t hanks to Dr.alabokun for his good work I really believe HIV have cure I was
HIV positive over since 1year plus before I come across a comment
dr.alabokun that he have cure to any disease and virus but when I saw it
 i have it in mind that he can’t cure HIV I just decided to give a try I
 contact him that night lucky to me he said yes but I don’t believe him I
 think it was a scam or some thing like that but I still hold on to see
the work of dr.alabokun if he is saying the true he ask for different
things and some question about me I give him all the detail he needed
and I wait to see his reply to my problem all the things is done he ask
me to go for check up I went for hiv test I cant believe I was negative
the medical doctor was surprise and doctor even ask for dr alabokun
email which i give to him, he he is help people that contact him also he
 can still help you on your cure thanks Dr.alabokun for helping me for
the cure at this young age if you need help contact him now  or contact +2348071145063people with severe acid reflux really need to see a doctor,there could me more behind it,like a hiatal hernia,making a hole in your food pipe where the acid comes directly up and into your throat.I had 2 surgeries done,invasivly months ago,lately ive been having episodes of heartburn,which I didn’t have after surgery.Today it was so bad,i was crying,the burning and acid from my stomach to throat,my heart felt crushed and im stuck on a farm with no car,called doc to see what household object I could try,i did try tums,and the imaprozole,then a piece of bread,and now  peeled sliced apple,it seems to be helping im no longer crying but I can feel the burn all the way down from my neck to my stomach,like a trail of gasoline..My doc is in surgery so I cant reach him,im looking for anything in a common household that will help.I do have a history of angina and usually the reflux triggers the heart pain,,,this all sucksGoodday   My name is Kate Morrison from united states, i am here to thank DR OVIA the powerful spell caster that rescue me from HIV AIDS. I was diagnosed of this disease in the year 2012, and because of this, i was very unhappy with my life, and i went into research on how i can get cured, i contacted alot of spell casters and none of them could help me rather thay scammed me and took away my money without helping me. All this period of my life, i was sad and unhappy so one day as i was in the internet a decided to sign in a friend guestbook, only for me to see was a testimony of a lady on how she was helped by DR OVIA, so i was confused to contact him at the moment because i didn’t want to be scammed again but after one week, i decided to contact him, so when i contacted him, he assure me that he will help me and i told him that many spell casters has also told me this but they all scammed me, he told me not to worry that he is going to help me, So i believe in him because all i wanted was to be cured, so he prepared a healing spell for me and told me to wait fot just 24 hours, after 24 hours, i went to the hospital for test and to me happines the test stated that i was cured from the disease.. This gladens my heart and everybody in the hospital was surprised even the Medical Doctor, So viewers DR OVIA is a God Gifted man and can help you to cure all types of sickness like HIV AIDS, CANCER, PILE, Kidney problem, Syphilis and lot’s more. You can contact him through his email on (droviasolutioncenter@gmail.com or ) or you call him +2347067610698. For more details you can reach me on my ID Goodday   My name is Kate Morrison from united states, i am here to thank DR OVIA the powerful spell caster that rescue me from HIV AIDS. I was diagnosed of this disease in the year 2012, and because of this, i was very unhappy with my life, and i went into research on how i can get cured, i contacted alot of spell casters and none of them could help me rather thay scammed me and took away my money without helping me. All this period of my life, i was sad and unhappy so one day as i was in the internet a decided to sign in a friend guestbook, only for me to see was a testimony of a lady on how she was helped by DR OVIA, so i was confused to contact him at the moment because i didn’t want to be scammed again but after one week, i decided to contact him, so when i contacted him, he assure me that he will help me and i told him that many spell casters has also told me this but they all scammed me, he told me not to worry that he is going to help me, So i believe in him because all i wanted was to be cured, so he prepared a healing spell for me and told me to wait fot just 24 hours, after 24 hours, i went to the hospital for test and to me happines the test stated that i was cured from the disease.. This gladens my heart and everybody in the hospital was surprised even the Medical Doctor, So viewers DR OVIA is a God Gifted man and can help you to cure all types of sickness like HIV AIDS, CANCER, PILE, Kidney problem, Syphilis and lot’s more. You can contact him through his email on (droviasolutioncenter@gmail.com or ) or you call him +2347067610698. For more details you can reach me on my ID .Pingback: ()Pingback: ()My acid reflux is SO bad that, I have literally, brought up, everything.
I
 have been, taking antacids for 40 years now. Regarding number 4 – Raw
organic apple cider vinegar – even THAT, would trigger the acids SO
badly where, I would NOT, be able to eat then. A lousy simple piece of
bread, gives me severe heartburn.
 The only thing, that HAS been working, a little, is Zantac.Pingback: ()Hello!! I’m indeed very happy for the great help that Dr. okorom rendered to me, I was a herpes patient my husband also was a herpes patient, we saw a blog whereby Dr. okorom cured herpes, we (Me and My Husband) decided to contact him which we did, he asked us to buy some items, unfailingly we sent him the money he will need in buying the items required, He castes the spell and asked us to go for check-up after three days of casting the spell, Luckily for us we were tested herpes negative, now I believe all these Testimonies about him on the internet, he is truly a great man, if you want to discuss with me on how he cured us, kindly email me on  or you can contact the great Herbalist and a spell caster on   or you can call him via his mobile phone number on +2348127147869…………Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pickle juice. Dill pickle juice. Works wonders. Instantly.Pingback: ()A TRADITIONAL HERBALIST & SPIIRITUAL HEALER. A NATIVE DOCTOR WHO CAN GIVE YOU A SMILE AFTER USING HIS SPIRITUAL SERVICES & HERBAL MEDICINES.
CONTACT  DR OGBEFUN FOR HELP VIA EMAIL Pingback: ()apple cider vinegarI think I had an attack of acid reflux after eating chicken and dumplings.  i was hurting in my chest on the right side and it ran up my neck into my jaw,  Very painful and sharp.  I immediately put an aspirin under my tongue and took protonix.  This all lasted about five minutes.  I was thinking “could this be my heart?”  Now, several hours later, I am fine.  Any thoughts from others?I have been suffering from (HERPES) disease for the last four years and had constant pain, especially in my knees. During the first year,I had faith in God that i would be healed someday.This disease started circulate all over my body and i have been taking treatment from my doctor, few weeks ago i came on search on the internet if i could get any information concerning the prevention of this disease, on my search i saw a testimony of someone who has been healed from (Hepatitis B and Cancer) by this Man Dr ERO and she also gave the email address of this man and advise we should contact him for any sickness that he would be of help, so i wrote to Dr ERO telling him about my (HERPES Virus) he told me not to worry that i was going to be cured!! hmm i never believed it,, well after all the procedures and remedy given to me by this man few weeks later i started experiencing changes all over me as the Dr assured me that i have cured,after some time i went to my doctor to confirmed if i have be finally healed behold it was TRUE, So friends my advise is if you have such sickness or any other at all you can email Dr ERO on : (eromosalspiritualtemple@gmail.com) or call him on +2348161850195 sir i am indeed grateful for the help i will forever recommend you to my friends!!!There’s also olive oil which acts as a natural antacid. Try using it as a home remedy for acid reflux and heartburn.This is really great info.  I suffered from acid reflux for many years and this is the type of advice that really helped me to overcome my problem.  So, to all you sufferers, YES! There is hope!  Just don’t lose faith and know that your body can heal itself.  I was lucky to find some great advice that helped me overcome my acid reflux and get better.Pingback: ()Everyone seems to be offering advice that treats the results rather  than the cause.  I’ve had Acid Reflux for years plus a Hiatal Hernia that the doctor refuses to perform an operation that would solve my problem but Obama Care won’t pay for the operation.  So I decided to do some research and get down to the Root of the problem.  Finally after 30 years of intense research I came to the conclusion that eating food and drinking fluids were  the main origin of my reflux.  So, I gave up drinking coffee, cokes, water, beer and even Raw ACV.  I gave up food and everything else that goes into one’s mouth.  Nothing worked. One night as I buckled my seat belt and prepared to spend another night sleeping sitting up in a straight chair   The real reason came to me.  The solution was simple, SEX yes that’s the answer. I mean a lot of Sex all night long. It takes your mind off of the reflux problem. You know if you don’t think about it the problem will go away.  My girlfriend was happy at first but she accused me keeping her up all night.  Plus the acid still  keeps coming up at the wrong time. So to solve that problem by  taping my mouth closed with Duck Tape.   Worked great. Reflux doesn’t bother me any more so long as I don’t run out of Tape.  I think I’m going to need another girlfriend soon. The one I have now always complains that she can’t any sleep at night and can’t stay awake all day at her job.  Maybe I need two girl friends. It seems that there is always another problem to face.Pingback: ()I have been using sauerkraut for years to stop it. The company name is Bubbies. It has live enzymes I can’t believe this. A great testimony that i must share to all herpes patient in the world. i never believed that their could be any complete cure for Herpes or any cure for herpes,i saw people’s testimony on blog sites and Facebook page of how Dr Lbezim prepare herbal cure and brought them back to life again. i had to try it too and you can,t believe that in just few two days i started using it all my pains stop gradually..gradually and i had to leave without the herpes the doctor gave to me. Right now i can tell you that few months now i have not had any pain, and i have just went for text last week and the doctor confirmed that there is no trace of any herpes system on my body. Glory be to God for Dr Lbezim him Email: Get familiar with colloidal silver if you haven’t already. I suffered for years thinking my reflux was caused by a hiatal  hernia from job related lifting. I heard about the H pylori bacteria and decided to drink about an ounce a day of the CS i make to see if it was bacteria -caused, and in two days the burning, nausea, feelings of a heart attack and chest pressure cleared up. It has not reoccurred in over 10 years.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Hello!! I’m indeed very happy for the great help that Dr. okorom rendered to me, I was a herpes patient my husband also was a herpes patient, we saw a blog whereby Dr. okorom cured herpes, we (Me and My Husband) decided to contact him which we did, he asked us to buy some items, unfailingly we sent him the money he will need in buying the items required, He castes the spell and asked us to go for check-up after three days of casting the spell, Luckily for us we were tested herpes negative, now I believe all these Testimonies about him on the internet, he is truly a great man, if you want to discuss with me on how he cured us, kindly email me on  or you can contact the great Herbalist and a spell caster on   or you can call him via his mobile phone number on +2348158168556Pingback: ()Pingback: ()I’m Eric johnson, I contracted Herpes(hsv-2) in 2009,  my doctor said there’s no cure for Herpes. I saw someone post about Dr. Mapipa,so many people was talking about him ,so decided to try, so i contacted him via his email so he replied me, and told me that he will cure me within 18days ,then i purchased the herbal medicine and he sent the herbal medicine to me, and I took it for 18 days after then I went for check-up and I was totally cured. The medicine has NO SIDE EFFECT, there’s no special diet when taking the medicine.Do you know that there is a great Herbal doctor who can cure any disease? Like Cancer, HIV, HPV, syphilis, diabetes, herpes, anthrax, madness, low spam count, pregnancy And also bring back your Lover E.t.c. Well my main reason why i amx writing this right now is to inform the whole world about the great deeds, DR. ITUA did for me. My name is Jessica Ruiz Hasiba, I was diagnosed of HIV in the year 2012 ever since then I was taking my medications, until I met the great spell caster, though I never believed in spell. I saw many testimonies on how he cured deadly diseases. I contacted him through his Email I Email him, he asked me to send him my information, which I did. He told me that his god’s required some items in which he will use in casting a curing spell on me. I don’t know where to find the items he required. He told me that the only alternative is for me to send him the money, and then he can help me to get the items and herbs for my treatment. I promised myself to do anything to get cured. I sent him the money. He bought the items and casted a curing spell on me and also sent me a herbal potion, I used it as He instructed. 7 days later he asked me to go for check up, when I did the check up I was tested HIV Negative. I am so happy, I can not stop thanking Him, if you passing through hardship and you need a way out, kindly contact him via his email on  add me on face book: Jessica HasibaHello!! I’m indeed very happy for the great help that Dr. okorom rendered to me, I was a herpes patient my husband also was a herpes patient, we saw a blog whereby Dr. okorom cured herpes, we (Me and My Husband) decided to contact him which we did, he asked us to buy some items, unfailingly we sent him the money he will need in buying the items required, He castes the spell and asked us to go for check-up after three days of casting the spell, Luckily for us we were tested herpes negative, now I believe all these Testimonies about him on the internet, he is truly a great man, if you want to discuss with me on how he cured us, kindly email me on  or you can contact the great Herbalist and a spell caster on   or you can call him via his mobile phone number on +2348158168556Greetings to you all, i am here today on this forum giving a life testimony on how Dr.ehigie has cured me from HERPES VIRUS, i have been stocked in bondage with this virus for almost 1years now, i have tried different means to get this sickness out of my body i also heard there was no cure to the virus, all the possible ways i tried,but did not work out for me, i do have the faith that i was going to be cured one day, as i was a strong believer in God and also in miracles, One day as i was on the internet i came across some amazing testimonies concerning how Dr ehigie has cured different people from various sickness with his Herbal Medicine, they all advised we contact Dr ehigie for any problem, with that i had the courage and i contacted Dr.ehigie i told him about my Sickness, He told me not to worry that he was going to prepare some Herbal Medicine for me, after some time in communication with Dr.ehigie, he finally prepared for me some herbs which he sent to me and he also gave me prescriptions on how to take them, My good people after taking Dr.ehigie Herbs for some weeks i started to experience changes in me and from there, I noticed my HERPES VIRUS was no longer in my body, as i have also gone for test, Today i am fit and healthy to live life again, I am so happy for the good work of Dr.ehigie in my life, Friends if you are having any type of disease problem kindly email Dr.ehigie on {dr.ehigiehomeofsolution@gmail.com} thank you sir for your good work you have done for me …..,,,I was diagnose of hep B for more than 2 years, all the medical doctors said to me there is no cure but it can only be control. Ever since then i have been running heather scepter looking for a solution to my problem, i ran into this online testimony of Mrs Stacey who have been cured of Hep B by this medical center she mention, i immediately contacted them, to God be thy glory i also got my cure am so happy today, please my advice is, if you have been living with Hep B contact them now don’t waste time and get cured,  their email  Hello let me share this testimony to the world to hear about him too this man really exit I was have  positive over 9year I have being in medication and I try to look for cure to my problem and I go through internet doctor and I found a tradition doctor named DR.HUTH  I contacted him for help he give me all his laws and rule that if I get cured I should write about him and that is what am doing now, this man ask for some information about me, which I give him this man cure me from HIV what a great man thank for your help when he get the information he told me that he is about to work on it 20 to 30 minute this man email me and told me what to do for the curing which I did after all the things needed for the cure is provide the man call me in 45mins later and tell me to go for test what a great day to me I was negative thanks dr.HUTH you can contact him now      or call  +2349059897314..Pingback: ()Hello my name is kim  Am from china,  …HIV has been ongoing in my family for long..I lost both parents to HIV. As we all know medically, there is no solution or cure for HIV and the cost for Medication is very expensive. Someone introduced me to a man (Native Medical Practitioner) in Africa called Dr olori. I showed him all my Tests and Results and I told him that i have already been diagnosed of HIV and have spent thousands of dollars on medication. I said I will like to try him cause someone introduced me to him. He asked me sorts of questions and I answered him correctly. To cut the story short, He gave me herbal medicine {in liquid and he thought me how am going to use them all. At first I was skeptical but I just gave it a try. I was on his Medication for 7 to 8 days and I used all the  herbs according to his prescription. That he will finish the rest himself. And I called him 3 days after, I arrived and I told him what is the next thing he said, he has been expecting my call. He told me to visit my doctor for another test. Honestly speaking, i never believe all he was saying until after the test when my doctor mention the statement that am, HIV negative and the doctor started asking me how do I do it….Am telling this story in case anyone may need this man’s help. you can contact him directly on this email;  or  reach him on his mobile contact +2349053311935There is currently no cure for Herpes Simplex virus. Most treatment on herpes focuses on getting rid of sores and limiting outbreaks.It is possible that your sores will disappear without treatment. However, your doctor may determine that you need one or more of the following medications:acyclovirfamciclovirvalacyclovirThese medications may come in oral (pill) form, or may be applied as a cream. For severe outbreaks, these medications may also be administered by injection.However, there are herbal therapies that could totally eradicate this virus from the body meanwhile there has been proofs and lots of testimonies to that effect. I took my time to investigate one Dr.Lusanda on how his herbs magically cured my friend Anthony and his girl friend who contacted this embarrassing virus. Please do reach out to Dr. Lusanda via his email:   .You can also reach me with +12527760453 for further confirmationsPingback: ()Hello everyone, my is Lynda Hodge. I want to tell about how i was cured of hiv/aids an embarrassing genital disease by a Doctor called Erazua. I was browsing through the Internet searching for remedy on STD and i came across some comment and testimony of people talking about how Doctor dr erazua cured them of different diseases. I Was afraid because i never believed in the Internet but i was convince to give him a try because i was having no hope of been cured of hiv/aids infections so i decided to contact him with his email that was listed on the comment (odiagbeerazua) when i contacted him he gave me hope and send a Herbal medicine to me that i took and it seriously worked for me, he told me to go to hospital for the result, my greatest surprise, when i got there it was confirmed that i was negative and now am a free person now without problem. I pray for you Dr. Erazua God will give you everlasting life, you shall not die before your time for being a sincere and a honest man. Am so happy, you can also contact him if you have any Sexually Transmitted disease please Email:  you can also call him on +2349056803574 He will definitely put an end to your problems….contact him and share his testimony too and i believe with this, the whole world will get to know about him and been know as the man who found the cure for the deadly disease…his email again….   Pingback: ()Getting myself relief from GERD is one issue I have choosing to let you know because after i came across Dr Fred herbal remedy to Gerd . it made me believed in Natural process i mean natural herbs. i have been through different medication with no relief but after i receive a herbal remedy from Dr Fred which he gave me instruction on how to go about it and with four week of taking it then I feel a lot better and getting to the firth week i was totally free from Gerd . write to Dr Fred via his email :  to know how to get yourself relieved from GerdAm MARY  i want to inform the public how i was cured of HERPES Simplex Virus by a Doctor called Drgaka. i visited different hospital but they gave me list of drugs like Famvir, Zovirax, and Valtrex which is very expensive to treat the symptoms and never cured me. I was browsing through the Internet searching for remedy on HERPES and i saw comment of people talking about how Doctor Gaka cured them. I Was scared because i never believed in the Internet but i was convince to give him a try because i was having no hope of been cured of HERPES so i decided to contact him on his email that was listed on the comment (drgakapellcastertemple@gmail.com ) i searched his email on net and i saw a lot of people testifying about his goodness. when i contacted him he gave me hope and send a Herbal medicine to me that i took and it seriously worked for me, am a free person now without problem, my HERPES result came out negative. You can contact him  and get all your problem solved.1)Sickness of any kind  2)Help to CURE Hepatitis B, HIV/AIDs  CANCER and BIPOLAR3)Divorce, Breakup problem and To Re-unit4)Pregnancy problem5)Financial problem and Job promotion6)To get a good and rich life partner7)To Lose at Least 21 lbs of Belly Fat in Just 7 days8)Lasser Fever.thank to doctor Emmanuel,I am from USA, I was diagnosed of Emphysema
(COPD) in 2015 and I have tried all possible means to get cured, i even
visited phonologist but all to no avail, until i saw a post in a health
forum about a herbal doctor from Africa who prepare herbal medicine to cure
all kind of diseases including Emphysema, at first i doubted if it was real
but decided to give it a try, when i contacted this herbal doctor via his
email he sent me the Emphysema herbal medicine through courier service,
when i received this herbal medicine, he gave me step by instructions on
how to apply it, when i applied it as instructed i was totally cured of
this deadly disease within 12-14 days of usage, if you are suffering of
this diseases you can as well Contact this great herbal doctor via his
email  > or call him at +2348110857969/////I can’t believe this. A great testimony that i must share to all HERPES patient in the world i never believed that their could be any complete cure for HERPES or any cure for HERPES,i saw people’s testimony on blog sites of how DR WAFE prepare herbal cure and brought them back to life again. i had to try it too and you can,t believe that in just few weeks i started using it all my pains stop gradually and i had to leave without the HERPES DRUGS the doctor gave to me. Right now i can tell you that few months now i have not had any pain,delay in treatment leads to death. Here is his email:   his WHATSAPP number is +2348158836717.
I can’t believe this. A great testimony that i must share to all HERPES patient in the world i never believed that their could be any complete cure for HERPES or any cure for HERPES,i saw people’s testimony on blog sites of how DR WAFE prepare herbal cure and brought them back to life again. i had to try it too and you can,t believe that in just few weeks i started using it all my pains stop gradually and i had to leave without the HERPES DRUGS the doctor gave to me. Right now i can tell you that few months now i have not had any pain,delay in treatment leads to death. Here is his email:   his WHATSAPP number is +2348158836717Friends help me share to your friends do not hide your probloem,I AM SO VERY HAPPY TODAY!!! That is why am giving this big thanks to Dr.Azimeye. I have been suffering from HIV/AIDS for the past six (6)years, i have spent a lot of money getting drugs from the hospitals to keep myself healthy, i tried everything possible to get myself cure, but i could’nt get any solution! until i decided to try herbal cure. That was how i got in contact with this great herbal doctor in an online research, i contacted him and after he had administer his herbal cure on me, two(2) days after i want for another test. To God be the glory i tested HIV/AIDS negative, (I am so glad to see my myself HIV/AIDS negative once again). I’m very proud to express my happiness through this platform and to say a big thanks to Dr. Azimeye for restoring my life back to normal. You can as well contact Dr. Azimeye via  if you are infected with HIV/AIDS virus or having any health problems or Have is Mobil number call or whatsApp him +2348137229680 DOCTOR Azimeye CAN AS WELL CURE THE FOLLOWING DISEASE:1. HIV/AIDS
2. HERPES 1/2
3. CANCER
4. ALS (Lou Gehrig’s disease)
5. Herpatitis B
6.chronic pancreatitis
7.Emphysema
8.COPD (Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease)
9.asthma
10.Acute angle-closure Glaucoma
11.Diabates
12.CHRONIC PANCREATITISI can’t believe this. A great testimony that i must share to all patient of [HBV] in the world. i never believed that their could be any complete cure for HEPATITIS B or any cure for HEPATITIS B, Mrs JANE introduce me to Dr Ozolua a herbal doctor who lives in Africa who brought him back to life again. so i had to try it too and you can,t believe that in just few weeks i started using the herbal medicine he sent to me i was perfectly OK and . Right now i can tell you that few months now i have not had any symptoms of HBV and i have just went for text last week and the doctor confirmed that there is no trace of any HBV in my body system. Glory be to God for leading me to this genuine Dr Ozolua I am so happy as i am sharing this testimony. My advice to you all who thinks that their is no cure for HBV that is Not true ,just contact him and get cure from Dr Ozolua via his email  and you will be free and free forever, Try it and you will not regret it because it truly works. One thing i have come to realize is that you never know how true it is until you try…or you can what sappn him +2349027212552,
Hello I’m Patricia Ann from USA, My father was diagnosed of Lung cancer in July 2001, the doctor had told us that he had only 1 year to live. I thought there was nothing to be done, I thought his life was about to end until i caught wind of the special cannabis oil. A rare commodity indeed, I searched high and low for the oil to no avail until i met MR.RICK SIMPSON who cure the cancer.You can Email him Via : 
 It Real!!! And it Work. Health is Wealth.Thank God Almighty that led me to Dr Emuan I never thought i would be Herpes negative again after being diagnosed in 2015, i have tried everything possible in life from one doctor to another, one hospital to another, series of tests, different kinds of medication, i had already lost hope until i meet Great Dr. Emuan through online testimonies, a specialist in herbal medication from Africa, i contacted him and he prepared Herpes herbal medication for me which i took for 14 days and now i am completely cured. i want to use this medium to express my gratitude to him for saving my life and curing me from Herpes Hsv2, for taking away all my pains and sorrows, I’m indeed grateful and i am so happy I’m now Herpes negative. i will continue to tell the good news of your great works to everyone, if you have Herpes please contact him now MUST READ,HOW I GOT CURED FROM WARTS VIRUS5 years ago I had warts, I was treated with some liquid applied to the warts they continued to grow and spread… The next 2 doctors did laser surgery to remove them. 1 year after the surgery, they grew back close to where the 1st ones were’ so I was finally told it was hpv. I have had it for very long time, I contract it from my cheated boyfriend and I found out he was also infected and I end up the relationship between us. the warts was so embarrasses because it started spreading all over I have be dealing with this things for very long time the last treatment I take was About 2 years ago I applied natural herbal ointment and also drank some herbal medicine from Dr Osaro herbal Medicine, 2 weeks after applying the treatment all the warts was gone. it’s now 2 years and some months I don’t have single wart or any symptoms of hpv. wow”” it’s great, Dr Osaro has finally cured me. Anyone living with hpv,hsv ( herpes) STD,Infertility,HIV,cancer or any disease should contact Dr Osaro for natural treatment.His Contact information are.Name: Dr. Osaro Enoma
Email: 
Phone: +2349029519146.  If you get treated please also tell others.I was diagnosed of hepatitis b in 2011 and I tried all possible means to get cure but all to no avail until i saw a post in a health forum about a South Africa herbal clinic they sell herbal medicine to cure all kind of diseases including hepatitis b virus, at first i doubted if it was real but decided to give it a try, when i contact them via their website and email i bought the hepatitis b herbal medicine and received it through DHL within 7 days and used it as prescribed, i tested negative to hepatitis b virus within 3 weeks of usage. Contact them via their email ejiroherbalcure(at)gmail(dot)com or call +27617403481 (Please write email in right format)Hello everyone here, my name is Nancy from Milan, December last year I was very ill , my daughter took me to the hospital and the doctor said I had cancer that I have few months to live. being a woman with big dreams, am not ready to die, I search through the internet for a possible cure and I saw testimonies of ADONKO HERBAL MIXTURE how it has helped allot of people,so i decide to give it a try  , I contacted the company’s email and they  sent me some herbs that I used , few months later I went for a test at the hospital and cancer disappear , thanks to Adonko herbal mixture for bringing me back to life ,  they also have herbs for any sickness and disease of any kind  contact them with their company email via  or you can also reach them through their mobile number +2348139452225 THANKS…..Hello Everyone, my names is frank wilson, i m from Florida USA. I want to share my testimonies to the general public on how this great man called Dr uchegbu who cured my cancer. I have been a HERPES patient for over 7 Months and i have been in pains until i came across this lady when i traveled to milan for Business trip who was once a herpes patient, i explained every thing to her and she told me that there is this Great Dr that help her to cure her herpes and she gave me his email address for me to contact and i did as she instructed. And the man Dr uchegbu told me how much to buy the herpes herbal medication and how i will get it, which i did. And to my greatest surprise that i took the Herpes herbal medicine for just one week and behold i went for a herpes test, for to my greatest surprise for the Doctor confirmed me to herpes free and said that i no longer have herpes in my system and till now i have never felt any pains nor herpes again, so i said i must testify the goodness of this man to the general public for if you are there suffering from this Herpes problems or any deadly disease or other disease for i will advice you to contact him on his working email:  (druchegbuherbcure1@gmail.com) and i assure you that he will help you just as he did for me okay
contact him on his email: or you can as well contact his mobile line on (+2348079056279) or you can whatapps him on : (+2347035005309)
THESE ARE DISEASES THAT DR. UCHEGBU CAN CURE
1. HERPES
2. LASSA FEVER
3. GONORRHEA
4. HIV/AIDS
5. LOW SPERM COUNT
6. MENOPAUSE DISEASE
7. EPILEPSY
8. ASEPSIS
9. CANCER
10. ANXIETY(MENTAL BREAK DOWN..I am Gilbert from Nairobi Kenya, I want to testify of how i got cured from HIV AIDS, I got infected with HIV
AIDS disease in the year 2012 and I have visited several herbalists, spiritualists and pastors for cure
but all to no avail, my world was gradually coming to an end until i saw a post in a health
forum about a herbal spell caster from Africa who casts herbal spells to cure all kind of
deadly diseases including HIV AIDS, ALS, MND, Epilepsy, Leukemia, Asthma, Cancer, Gonorrhea, at first i doubted if it was real but decided to give it a try, when i contact this
herbal spell caster via his email, he prepared a herbal spell portion and sent it to me via
courier service, when i received this herbal spell portion, he gave me some
instructions on how to apply it, when i applied it as instructed,then after 7
 days, then i went  to the hospital for a test and to my greatest
surprise i was tested negative, I am now HIV Negative (-) all thanks to
Dr.princearata .you can  Contact this great
herbal spell caster via his Email:  OR call +2348163241499.i am simati kwame from south Africa have been suffering from (HIV/AIDS) disease for the last four years now and had constant pain, especially in my knees. During the first year,I had faith in God that i would be healed someday.This disease has been trying to circulate all over my body and i have been taking treatment from my doctor, few weeks ago i came on search on the internet if i could get any information concerning the prevention of this disease, on my search i saw a testimony of someone who has been healed from (Cancer) by this Man Dr PRINCE ARATA and many other`s. well she gave the email address of this man and advise we should contact him for any sickness that he would be of help, so i wrote to Dr PRINCEARATA telling him about my (HIV Virus) he told me not to worry that i was going to be cured!! hmm i never believed it,, well after all the procedures and remedy given to me by this man few weeks later i started experiencing changes all over me, and suddenly after some time i went to the hospital for a test to confirm to my greatest surprise i was finally healed, friends i will advise if you have any sickness at all you can email Dr PRINCE ARATA on : (dr.princearataabraham@gmail.com) or call him or better still whatsapp him on +2348163241499 sir i am indeed grateful for the help i will forever recommend you to the world.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Hi friends!
I am anita david by name and i want to use this great opportunity to share with you some great and amazing testimony of how i was cured from HERPES Virus with the help of Dr ehidiamen Herbal Medicine.
Over 2 years now i have been suffering and living in pain with this deadly virus Herpes, fear grew in my mind everyday as i heard there is no cure for it, but to me i knew that medical drugs was not the only option in treating viruses and infection, my greatest problem was that i was stocked in pain as the symptoms has circulated over my body.
Few Months ago i decided to get more information online concerning herpes,and while i was surfing the web, i came across some great testimonials from various people on how Dr ehidiamen has been using his herbal medicine to cure different disease, at first i was shocked as i have never heard of such thing before, and also i doubted if it was true as it never came up on media, these people gave out the email address of Dr ehidiamen and advised we contact him for any problem, though i was doubting him i decided to put a test on it, moreover it was the fist time for me to hear something like that, i copied the email address of Dr ehidiamen and i sent him a message about my health status and i also requested for his medicine in order for me to get good health, he gave me a responded after some hours and he told me the procedure involved in order for me to get his medicine, he also said to me he was going to send me some herbal liquid medicine which was going to take for 2 weeks and after 2 weeks i will be totally cured.
I went with Dr ehidiamen and i followed exactly as i was told by this man, after 3 to 5 days of communication i eventually received a package from the mailing service and that was the medicine sent by Dr ehidiamen.
I started taking the medicine as i was directed by Dr ehidiamen and after 2 weeks i also started seen some changes on my skin, and after a month passed i noticed that the rashes on my skin are cleared, i was surprised and i had a thought to myself again LIKE! IS THIS REALLY WORKING OUT? when i noticed this changes i contacted this Great Dr and i told him about it, he told me to go to the hospital and do some check up if the virus is still there, i actually went to the hospital on Friday to do some test on my blood and after 3 days the result came out that i was completely free from HERPES, still many people will not believe this, but it did really works.
Dr ehidiamen is a brave man and he is set to answer all human disease, today i am living in good health as just with a test i conquered my pain and sorrow, Please you can contact Dr ehidiamen for any problem with the email below:(doctorehidiamen@gmail.com)  or call him (+2348102802949), Thanks for reading this!What worked for me was Slippery Elm capsules that i break open and pour hot water in a cup or the tea bags.  Its actually improved my breathing 90%.  However changing diets is a must.    Hello I’m Anita Crave by name, I’m here to share my testimony about Dr. Ben Herb Cure the great Herbalist, he has the cure to all manner of diseases, he cured my HIV disease, though I went through different website I saw different testimonies about different spell casters and herbalist, I was like: “Many people have the HIV cure why are people still suffering from it?” I thought of it, then I contact Dr. Ben Herb Cure via email, I didn’t believe him that much, I just wanted to give him a try, he replied my mail and Needed some Information about me, then I sent them to him, he prepared the Herb (CURE) and sent it through FEDex Online Courier Service for delivery, he gave my details to the Courier Office, they told me that 3-5 days I will receive the package and i took the medicine as prescribed by him and I went for check-up 2 weeks after finishing the medicine, I was tested HIV negative, if you are HIV positive do me a favour, Contact Dr. Ben Herb Cure and i  asure you 100% that you will get cured, when you contact him, make sure you tell him that I referenced you.. contact him via mail: i got cured from chronic hep b contact Dr Osele via email  whatsapp no. +27846531636Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()MY HIV HEALING TESTIMONY
My mouth is short of words, i am so so happy because Dr ofenmu has healed me from HIV ailment which i have been suffering from the past 5years now, i have spend a lot when getting drugs from the hospital to keep me healthy and alive, i have tried all means in life to always become HIV negative, but there was no answer until i found Dr ofenmu the Paris of African who provide me some healing Medicinal spell that he uses to help me, i never believe in spell doctor for the healing of HIV but i decided to take a step to see if it could save me from this deadly disease. behold it work out in a way i could never believe after sending me the herbal medicine i took it and went for test after the first Month it was HIV Negative my doctor could not believe until i went for the second text on the 3 month it was still Negative there my doctor told me that this was a miracle. now i am glad telling everyone that i am now HIV Negative, i am very very happy, thank you Dr.ofenmu  for helping my life comes back newly without any form of crisis, may the good lord that i serve blessed you Drofenmu. so i will announce to everyone around the world having HIV positive and also the cure of cancer in any part of the body to please follow my advice and get healed on time, because we all knows that HIV disease is a deadly type,he can also cure any kind of cancer you can contact him for your healing. contact Drofenmu for your HIV healing spell today at:  or you can call his personal line on  (+2347067482649) He will be always happy to assist you online and ensure you get healed on time.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Thanks to  for helping me get my wife back, i have been married for 10 years. It all started in June, my wife started acting very weird, everything little thing, she gets angry at every little thing and then one day i suggested to her that we should go for counseling in order to make our marriage work but she bluntly refused and told me she wanted to move out. She finally moved out and i became very sad, i did not know what to do, a friend of mine at work told me of  and how he helped him when he had problems in his marriage. I wrote to the  and told him what i have been going through. He told me my wife had another man in her life and he would ensure i get her back. I did all the Prophet told me to do, he told me my wife would be back to me in less than 3days. My wife came home 2 days later, we talked about all that happened, she said she did not know what got over her. I forgave her and now we are back together. Thanks to  for bringing my wife back. Please contact  is a
great prophet and he is also reliablePingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()To cure herpes virus entirely, you must understand what causes it, what worsen it and the exactly proven method of getting rid of it. I’ve been experience it for a long time however it is totally gone now.  You can contact Dr Uyi at his email address ::  for the herbal medication cure or you can also contact him on his mobile phone number: +2348077199766..I am Teresa from the United States. I want to appreciate the great work of Dr Uyi, i have been diagnose of herpes infection for a period of years, i have lose all hope that there is no cure and i have been taken medicine to sustain myself not until i got to know about Dr Uyi, i contacted him and he sent me a Herbal Medicine which i took as prescribed for some period of days and i went to the hospital after consuming the Herbal medicine. To my greatest surprise i was confirmed Herpes Negative after years of being positive, it is indeed a miracle, Dr Uyi is a great man, i have heard so much about how he has helped lot of people, if you have any issue you can contact him for help. Email:  or Phone call: +2348077199766. While i was on his medication i understood that he can also cure HERPES, HIV/AIDS, CANCER, Male/female menopause, Miscarriage, Menstruation problems, PREGNANCY PROBLEM, EPILEPSY, GONORRHEA, LASSA FEVER, OBESITY, KIDNEY FAILURE, HYPERTENSION, FIBROID TUMOR and many more. Contact him today and get your problem solved.I am Teresa from the United States. I want to appreciate the great work of Dr Uyi, i have been diagnose of herpes infection for a period of years, i have lose all hope that there is no cure and i have been taken medicine to sustain myself not until i got to know about Dr Uyi, i contacted him and he sent me a Herbal Medicine which i took as prescribed for some period of days and i went to the hospital after consuming the Herbal medicine. To my greatest surprise i was confirmed Herpes Negative after years of being positive, it is indeed a miracle, Dr Uyi is a great man, i have heard so much about how he has helped lot of people, if you have any issue you can contact him for help. Email:  or Phone call: +2348077199766. While i was on his medication i understood that he can also cure HERPES, HIV/AIDS, CANCER, Male/female menopause, Miscarriage, Menstruation problems, PREGNANCY PROBLEM, EPILEPSY, GONORRHEA, LASSA FEVER, OBESITY, KIDNEY FAILURE, HYPERTENSION, FIBROID TUMOR and many more. Contact him today and get your problem solved……Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()I have been suffering hardship from HIV/AIDS since 7yrs now, and i happen to have 2 kids for my husband, and now we cannot proceed to have another kids all because of my disease and now i have do all what a human like i and my husband can do just to get my disease healed, i have went to several places to seek for help not even one person could ever help, until i melt a comment on the daily news paper that was commented by Desmond about how this powerful traditional doctor help him get cured of the disease (HIV-AIDS) ” my fellow beloved” i firstly taught having a help from a spiritual traditional healer was a wrong idea, but i think of these, will i continue to stress on these disease all day when i have someone to help me save my life?” so i gather all my faiths and put in all interest to contact him through his Email address at  , so after i have mailed him of helping get my disease cured, he respond to me fast as possible that i should not be afraid, that he is a truthful and powerful doctor which i firstly claimed him to be. So after all set has been done, he promise me that i will be healed but on a condition that i provide him some items and obeyed all his oracle said. I did all by accepting his oracles fact and only to see that after some weeks of taking his herbal medicine i notice some changes in my body system and i went for check up the day he ask me to go for check up to confirm if the sickness was still there,to my greatest surprise i could not find any sickness in my body i was first shocked and later arise to be the happiest woman on earth after i have concluded my final test on the hospital by my doctor that i am now HIV- Negative. My papers for check are with me and now i am happy and glad for his miraculous help and power. With these i must tell everyone who might seek for any help, either for HIV cure or much more to contact him now at these following email now, Email: Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Hi everyone, there is good news, a perfect and great one. My daughter Janet of 17years who has suffered of HiV for 2 and half years has been cure by a Herbal doctor called Dr. buba who uses herbal and traditional medicine to cure people. I have spent so much on my daughter’s health paying hospital bills and getting her medications for years but no improvement. A friend told me about this herbal man who cure people with herbal medicine. he cures all sickness, diseases, viruses, and infections with his different herbal curing medicine.
The result that declares my daughter Janet healed was from a hospital here in Kansas, And the results of the test says my daughter was okay. Dr buba directed that Janet would be in 7days if she uses the medicine as directed. And 7days later, we went to confirm from the central hospital and several test that was done says my daughter is not sick of diseases . So she was cured by this herbal doctor in 7days as he has prescribe  This amaze me though. I would advice everyone to meet this dr buba on  for his herbal medicine to cure your illness because am happy to see my daughter healthy again.
Meet dr buba and set yourself and your love ones ill free.
you can also contact him for these same problems
EX BACK
PREGNACY
MONEY SPELL
LOTTERY SPELL
LOW SPERM COUNT ETC
doctor buba email again is    or whats app +2349051175814.Hi everyone, there is good news, a perfect and great one. My daughter Janet of 17years who has suffered of HiV for 2 and half years has been cure by a Herbal doctor called Dr. buba who uses herbal and traditional medicine to cure people. I have spent so much on my daughter’s health paying hospital bills and getting her medications for years but no improvement. A friend told me about this herbal man who cure people with herbal medicine. he cures all sickness, diseases, viruses, and infections with his different herbal curing medicine.
The result that declares my daughter Janet healed was from a hospital here in Kansas, And the results of the test says my daughter was okay. Dr buba directed that Janet would be in 7days if she uses the medicine as directed. And 7days later, we went to confirm from the central hospital and several test that was done says my daughter is not sick of diseases . So she was cured by this herbal doctor in 7days as he has prescribe  This amaze me though. I would advice everyone to meet this dr buba on  for his herbal medicine to cure your illness because am happy to see my daughter healthy again.
Meet dr buba and set yourself and your love ones ill free.
you can also contact him for these same problems
EX BACK
PREGNACY
MONEY SPELL
LOTTERY SPELL
LOW SPERM COUNT ETC
doctor buba email again is    or whats app +2349051175814,.,.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Gladys Raymond, is my name an from Dallas Texas, United State of America. Herpes Virus an Diabetes is a terrible virus, Thanks to my Husband an Dr Ererdiawa. If not for my Husband and the help of the great Dr Erediawa my life would have been a mess! I was diagnose with Herpes virus an Diabetes in 2012, my husband encouraged me, and told me not to lose hope an Faith, I manage to give birth to a baby Boy Junior Raymond in 2014,who was free from this virus, and my Husband was always there for me! On 17th of March 2016, my Husband told me that he have found a man who can cure me. Base on scientist, they said there is no cure for Herpes an Diabetes virus; he told me that he has seen many testimonies about him (Dr Erediawa) on the internet. i thought of it an i told my Husband that i am not comfort with this ideal an beside there are many scam out there, but my Husband make me to understand that life is all about Risk, then we decided to contact him, we filled his Herbal home form, and he asked us to buy some local root and herbs items which we did! and he prepared for me a herbal medicine and sent it down to me an he gave me instruction on how to take the Herbal medicine which i did as he has instructed, he ask me to take it for 42 days, an said in the next one week, that is when i must have completed taken the Herbal medicine, i should go for test which i did, faithfully hopefully i went for the medical test, and Behold, I was cured, from this virus and its was not found in my Body system again… My Dear Husband and my Father Dr. Erediawa, God will surely bless the both of you, till the end of time Amen… i can really Believe today i am Herpes an Diabetes free, If you have any this problem kindly contact Dr Erediawa on is email:  or call  him on his mobile WhatsApp number +2348159412586Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Good day everyone, i’m Maria, If getting herpes cure was that easy then why do a lot of people still suffer from herpes?. i was diagnosed of herpes back in 2013 and i was also told it has no cure, i have been leaving with it since then, but i kept praying and doing everything possible to get cured, so i never stopped doing research about finding a cure, i came across testimonies about people getting cured through herbal medication, and i have always believe in herbs and its medical properties, after doing so many research about it i found Dr. Bulukona and i discovered he was a professional in herbal medication and he has also helped many people, i contacted him through his Website: bulukonasolutiontemple. webs. com, we talked on phone and i confirmed he was genuine, i did all what he told me to do, i received the medicine, used it as he has prescribed, and glory be to God almighty i am completely cured, i went back to my doctor to confirm it. Do not be deceived THERE IS A CURE FOR HERPES, doctors might tell you there is no cure but WITH HERBAL MEDICATION THERE IS A CURE and if you need it contact Dr. Bulukona Email: bulukonasolutiontemple @outlook. com,Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()HE FIX THESE FOLLOWING PROBLEMS TO ALL
ACROSS THE GLOBE ON:
1. Getting your lover or husband back
2. Spiritual bulletproof
3. Training
4. Money spell
5. Long life spell
6. Prosperity spell
7. Protection spell
8. Get a job spell
9. Becoming a manager spell
10. Get a huge loan without paying any fee spell
11. Getting your scam money back
12. Child spell
13. Pregnancy spell
14. Freedom spell
15. Love spell
16, vanishing spell
17. Invisible human spell
18. Success or pass spell
19. Marriage spell
20. Avenging spell
21. Popularity spell
22. Killing spell
23. Cancer spell ECT
help contact him for help via emailPingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Am  Steve Nickson  i have read testimonies about this great man called Dr.Uchegbu  how he helped people to get pregnant and also help people to cure Herpes simplex virus with his herbal medicine, so i decided to give him a try, i am here today to give my own testimony on how this great man helped me to cure my Herpes disease and also helped my sister to get pregnant, i just told him and he said he was going to work on it miraculously and in a short period of time i was lifted from these terrible disease. And it took my sister just a week to get pregnant after he was done. Contact this great man and He will help you no matter the problem you are facing. Email him at (druchegbuherbcure1@gmail.com) call (+2348079056279 +2347035005309). OR whatsapp him.THESE ARE THE THINGS Dr. Uchegbu. . HERPES . HIV/AIDS . CANCERPingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()I am indeed very happy for my life; My name is Maquilla Gemma Protacio, I never thought that I will live on earth before the year runs out. I have been suffering from a deadly disease (HIV) for the past 5 years now; I had spent a lot of money going from one places to another, from one church to another, hospitals have been my every day residence. Constant checks up have been my hobby not until last Month, I was searching through the internet, I saw a testimony on how DR. ALI EKER  helped someone in curing her HIV disease, quickly I copied his email which is (ekerali553@gmail.com). I spoke to him, he asked me to do some certain things which I did, he told me that he is going to provide the herbal to me, which he did, then he asked me to go for medical checkup after some days after using the herbal cure, I was free from the deadly disease, he only asked me to post the testimony through the whole world, faithfully am doing it now, please brothers and sisters, he is great, I owe him in my life. if you are having a similar problems just email him on (ekerali553@gmail.com). Are you in need of help to solve your infertility problem or to get
pregnant? He can also cure disease like Cancer, Diabetes, Herpes, Hepatitis B, Etc. You can reach me on email: Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()My name is Mary . i stumbled on this email address:   few weeks ago, so i emailed him about my herpes virus which i contracted 5months ago. I sent him an email and he said he would help me out with the herbal cure (dr. Udo) and it will take just 2weeks to get rid of the virus, Tho i was not quite convinced but i had to give it a trial because so many people talked about him, I purchased the cure as i was advised to, and i received the medications 5days later and now i am so glad to say he is a God sent because i am totally free from herpes. It works and he promised and i can’t stop thanking him for what he has done in my life. So i advice anyone reading this testimony, if you have herpes or know anyone that does have the virus do not hesitate to give out his contact details to help stop the virus. Contact him via email on(dr.ehisoduhomeofcure@outlook.com ) or better still call him on +2347051009341. Thanks for reading.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()STORY OF HOW I GOT CURED
Hi guys, my name is
 Tasha Medina, from Texas USA. i contacted HSV last year from my boy
friend, who abandon me in my difficult time of this virus, i was
devastated, frustrated not knowing what to do, i searched for solution
from my trusted friends and on net too, i was duped by many, it got to a
 point i felt all alone and giving up in life. One day my friend visited
 me with her lady friend and she told me that her friend was HSV
positive before she got cured by her Africa doctor, i was shocked,
thinking there was no cure and here is a living witness testifying of
her cure from HSV. She introduced me to  him, i contacted him for help,
he told me not to worry that he will help me get my permanent cure, he
prepared and send me his herbal medicine which i took for 3 weeks
according to his prescription. after the third week he told me to go for
 test and which i did, lo and behold i was amazed when the doctor told
me i was HSV negative, i could not believe it, i went to another health
center for the same test, and the test was also negative. till now, this
 is still like a miracle to me, i will continue to thank you sir for
giving me my life back with opportunity of getting married and having my
 own kids, i will never stop thanking you Dr. Ken, i will continue to
testify to the world of how you cured me from HSV. friends, if you are
out there and you are HSV positive, there is a hope for you to get cured
 from this awful virus, contact him through his email address or call him with this mobile number +2349035941493            DR. KEN CURES
HSV 1 & 2
HIV
CANCER, ETC
      if you want more info about him contact me through my email address, thanks (tashamedina02@gmail.com)Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()My name is Lucy Williams from  U.S.A. My heart is filled with so much joy as I write this testimony. I want to tell the world about a great man called Dr. Adaobi who cured my husband and I of HIV/AIDS with herbal medicine. My husband and I have be hiv/aids positive for the past four (4) years. We have tried so many solutions and my husband even fall into the hands of scam. One fateful day while browsing the internet I saw a testimony by one mr. John on how this great Dr. Adaobi  cured his seven (7) years hiv/aids through herbal medicine so I decided to give a try, a try that changed our life for good. So I contacted this great man and he send some herbal medicine for me and my husband which we took within five (5) days. It was a great surprise when we went for test the following day and it came out negative. God will bless you Dr. Adaobi, you will leave long. Because of the joy you brought into my family again. You can also contact him on his email. . You can also call him on phone: +2349060446408 or add him up on whatsapp: +2349060446408Pingback: ()Hello everyone, this is serious. My Dad of 68 years who has suffered of HERPES for 1 and half years has been cured by a
 Herbal doctor called Dr. Ehiquala who uses herbal and traditional
medicine to cure people. I have spent so much on my Dad’s health
paying hospital bills for years but no improvement. A friend told me
about this herbal man who cure people with herbal medicine. He cures all
 sickness, diseases, viruses, and infections with his different herbal
curing medicine.
The
 result that declares my Dad Roland healed was from a hospital here
in New York, And the results of the test says my Dad was
okay. Dr Ehiquala directed that Dad would be okay in 21 days if he uses
the medicine as directed. And 21 days later, we went to confirm it from the
central hospital and several test that was done says my Dad is fully healed. So he was cured by this herbal doctor in 21 days. This
 amaze me though. I would advice everyone to meet this Dr Ehiquala who made my Dad healthy again.
Meet Dr Ehiquala and set yourself and your love ones free.
Doctor Ehiquala’s email again is  call or whats app +2347065237363…Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Apple Cider Vinegar has been the ONLY thing that has worked for me so far. Well, that and going for a run in the morning before I eat breakfast.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()i am sharing my family testimony with joy and hopes that you will also use get your own cures from the best herbal doctor…i was sick from the disease Emphysema,i had to stop my work and cut all contact from friends,for long i searched for possible help to get cured.until i came across a blog testimony the herbal cures  Dr Felix provide,i contacted him through his email:  with my problem,he prepared herbs sent it to me,i used it with his instructions then i went for my weekly test,my tests result came out negative.
     Recently Dr also saved my sister,she was having warts infections all over her body,it was itchy and reddish, i quickly contacted Dr Felix,he sent us some herbs to use and now everything is clear from her skin.why struggle with any sickness and infections when all can do is contact Felix, his email:  he will help you with his genuine and certified herbs.
     Thank you Dr Felix.Health is not just physical health, but also mental, emotional and spiritual well-being. An important part of the healing process for me is to be active in HIV/AIDS education, support and advocacy. I volunteer in a number of HIV/AIDS organizations, and in particular Positive Women, because the impact of HIV /AIDS on women is very different than from men. As once a positive person, I will forever be grateful to God Almighty and Doctor lucky to reach me when i thought it is all over, Today am happy with my family living free after the medical doctor have confirmed my HIV status Negative, I have never in my life believed that HIV could be cured by any herbal medicine, I want to make sure that HIV never happens to anyone else. We can’t prevent HIV by punishment, by stigma and discrimination. It’s only through building a safe, supportive and caring environment, that positive people still have hope and they should contact Dr lucky with this email:  so they can once again be visible in our community, to educate and advocate, to take better care of ourselves and our families. We’re someone’s daughter, partner, mother, grandmother, sister, aunt. When we have HIV, it impacts on our families too. kindly contact him today and leave carefree, on whatsapp +2349050606649 Goodluck. you can also reach me on my mail: Pingback: ()Pingback: ()I want to say a big thanks to Doctor Oije for helping me cure my HSV 1 & HSV 2, i have suffered HSV 1 & 2 for a long period of time, i have tried so many remedy, but non seems to work. until i had contact with this herbal doctor who i saw so many people testifying on how they were all cured of their various disease and viruses by this doctor. So i explained my entire problem to him, and he promised to cure me. So i gave him all benefit of doubt, and behold he prepared the herbal mixture, and send it to me in my country. Today, i am proud to say i am HSV 1 & HSV 2 free, and my health level has been restored to normal. So in case you are out there suffering from Herpes Virus, DIABETES,ASTHMA, and other diseases or virus, i want to tell you to quickly contact Doctor Ojie for your cure. His email is  or call him via +2347067500662 and you will be glad you did.What about pregnant women? They are not supposed to have aloe vera or raw foods. They can get severe acid reflux and not have anything toxic in their body. Any recommendations appreciated.I was cured of HIV with the used of natural herbs. My name is Marie and am from US. I love herbs so much. Most times, injection and drugs are just a waste of time. I was cured 8months ago, i suffered from HIV for 13yrs but with the help of DR. Baba Ogu herbal medicine, i was cured within few weeks of drinking the herbs he sent to me through courier delivery service. This same doctor also cured my Aunty from herpes, as soon as i heard she had herpes, i quickly refer her to Dr. Baba Ogu and she was cured too after drinking his herbs.I have referred more than 15 persons to Dr. Baba Ogu and they were all cured from their various illness. Have you taken herbs before?. You have spent so much money on drugs,injections,surgeries etc and yet you have no good result to show for it. Contact Dr. Baba Ogu now, he is a herbalist doctor, i assured you of a cure if you drink his natural herbs. Dr Baba Ogu have herbs that cures  Hiv, Herpes, diabetics, asthma, hepatitis,HBP, STD, cancer, chronic, etc. He is also a spell caster, he can cast a spell to bring back your EX lover. Contact Dr. Baba Ogu through his Email address on:  or WHATSAP/CALL him on +2348137291215. Share the good news to others once you are cured. Thank youGod bless Doctor Arthur Moon for helping me cure my HERPS. Brethren, i have suffered HERPS for a long period of time, i have tried so many remedy, but known seems to work. But i had contact with a herbal doctor who i saw so many people testifying on how they were all cured of their various disease and viruses by this doctor. So i explained my entire problem to him, and he promised to cure me. So i gave him all benefit of doubt, and behold he prepared the herbal mixture, and send it
 to me in my country. Today, i am proud to say i am HERPS free, and my sugar level has been restored to normal. So in case you are out there suffering from diabetes and other diseases or virus, i want to tell you to quickly contact: Arthur Moon for your cure. His Email: God bless Doctor Arthur Moon for helping me cure my HERPS. Brethren, i
have suffered HERPS for a long period of time, i have tried so many
remedy, but known seems to work. But i had contact with a herbal doctor
who i saw so many people testifying on how they were all cured of their
various disease and viruses by this doctor. So i explained my entire
problem to him, and he promised to cure me. So i gave him all benefit of
 doubt, and behold he prepared the herbal mixture, and send it
 to me
 in my country. Today, i am proud to say i am HERPS free, and my sugar
level has been restored to normal. So in case you are out there
suffering from diabetes and other diseases or virus, i want to tell you
to quickly contact: Arthur Moon for your cure. His Email:

………………………………….Pingback: ()Oh no, lionheart  lemons and apple cider vinegar
are no acid once they in you body they become
alkaline. A miracle of GOD. Be sure and dilute.If you must use baking soda, it is definitely
aluminum free and it is as good to use as any
competitor brand.No need to buy on internet, and no need to buy
Bob’s Red Mill Baking Soda, since Arm and Hammer is also aluminum free. In fact I never
knew  ANY “baking soda” had aluminum in it. Check it out!Pingback: ()Since I started this program: certifiedtreatment. com/heartburn, my acid reflux symptoms seem to be on the run. I have no chest pain or burning sensation after a meal (even a heavy one) and I have tossed away all those expensive pills that have never dealt with the underlying cause anyway. This book is very digestible and the program is quite practical if you take it one step at a time. Moreover, I am no longer constipated as I was prior to starting the Heartburn No More.certifiedtreatment. com/heartburnI’m trying to get to the bottom of my constant burning throat and esophagus. I’ve been suffering with it for months now. I also have had a dramatic change in my taste buds at the back of my throat. It’s like a salty, lemony asprin taste that kicks in about an hour after i get up. Has anyone else experienced this? My Dr has suggested my symptoms might be due to silent reflux. Another symptom is a bringing up phlegm that tastes a bit like rotting meat! nice 🙂
I’ve also had a a lot of dental work done in recent months, including a root canal and about 4 courses of antibiotics due to subsequent infection and abscesses. I’m wondering if this could be the cause of my problems. Of course the dentist doesn’t think so.
Anyway! I welcome any comments especially if anyone can relate to my symptoms and has cured themselves.
It gets very tiring and disheartening after a while, especially for my kids who are very patient with mummy always having a bad throat :/
TaPingback: ()CERTIFIEDTREATMENT.COM/REFLUXSince I started that program, my acid reflux symptoms seem to be on the run. I have no chest pain or burning sensation after a meal (even a heavy one) and I have tossed away all those expensive pills that have never dealt with the underlying cause anyway. This book is very digestible and the program is quite practical if you take it one step at a time. Moreover, I am no longer constipated as I was prior to starting the Heartburn No More. I highly recommend it to all sufferers out there.Since starting that program, my acid reflux symptoms seem to be gone. Very good programSince I started following a program I found online, my acid reflux symptoms seem to be on the run. I have no chest pain or burning sensation after a meal (even a heavy one) and I have tossed away all those expensive pills that have never dealt with the underlying cause anyway. The program is very digestible and quite practical if you take it one step at a time. Moreover, I am no longer constipated as I was prior to starting the program. I highly recommend it to all sufferers out there! It doesn’t let me post here, but if you click on my profile you should be able to find the program link.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Hi Gabby, how do you do the neti pot and it relieves? I tried that for my sinus and i feel like i was doing it wrong.Obviously, Pharmaster works for pharmacy. He maybe pissed we found the secret solution.Pingback: ()Vets actually know some things physicians don’t, according to Dr. Joel Wallach (who has been both a vet and a physician). Ranchers, for example, don’t have the luxury of expensive treatments for individual livestock, so they rely more on nutrient supplementation for various ailments.White House brand has a raw organic ACV (with mother) as well, available cheaply at Walmart.(MUST READ: HOW I GOT CURED FROM HIV DISEASE) I am from U.K, I was diagnosed of HIV VIRUS in 2015 and I have tried all I can to get cured but all to no avail, my life was gradually coming to an end, until i saw a post in a health forum about a prof from Africa who prepares a cure to cure HIV/ and all kind of diseases including ALS, MND, Epilepsy, Leukemia, Asthma, Cancer, Gonorrhea etc, at first i doubted if it was real but decided to give it a try, when i contact this prof via his email:  , he prepared a HIV herbal portion and sent it to me via courier service, when i received this herbal portion, he gave me step by step instructions on how to apply it, when i applied it as instructed, i was cured of this deadly virus  within two weeks, I could not walk or talk understandably before but after i took the cure as he instructed i regained strength in my bones and i could talk properly unlike before, I am now free from the deadly virus, all thanks to prof maduike ezeibe. Contact this great prof via his email. 