The multi-billion dollar phenomenon of  has captured the attention of scientists and nutritionists across the country. One of the main reasons is , a common ingredient found in the caffeine and sugar-laden concoctions.Taurine is a free form amino acid contained in foods and manufactured in the body from the amino acid cysteine. It was first discovered in the bile of bulls, and now produced synthetically by the truckload. Since taurine is created naturally in the human body, a good diet supplies all you need.Because taurine is utilized by the body during exercise and in times of stress, it’s become a popular ingredient in energy drinks. Taurine shows an anxiolytic effect on the central nervous system, causing a possible reduction of . While this may sound beneficial, perhaps its not the best thing to intake when seeking energy for your daily tasks.Taurine, mostly in its natural form, actually shows positive effects on the cardiovascular system, nervous system, and immune system. Since it has been shown to somewhat , it may counteract the effects of caffeine in energy drinks. Some argue that this may cause a person to feel unsatisfied with the lack of adrenalin they receive from the energy drink, causing them to reach for more caffeine. Could this lead to a vicious cycle of dependency? Probably not, but research has yet to conclude whether or not this is a serious issue.Studies have implicated energy drinks in illnesses ranging from high blood pressure to strokes and seizures to heart disease. For these reasons it’s been banned in some Scandinavian countries after being linked to the deaths of three consumers.Scientists have known for a couple of years that taurine is involved somehow in the development and function of the brain. But recently they’ve discovered a more defined area of taurine’s neurological activity. In a recent article from MedicalNewsToday.com, researchers at Weill Cornell Medical College in New York say they were “surprised” to find taurine “extraordinarily active” on brain receptors .Even though taurine is known to be a key amino acid, the researchers say they’re curious and puzzled still about the function of taurine in the brain, and have more questions than answers. They found taurine working deep inside the brain, in the “regulatory” area of the thalamus, interacting with neurotransmitters. The thalamus is involved in sleep/wake cycle pathways in the brain and other activities. “Its inclusion in these supplements is a little puzzling, because our research would suggest that instead of being a pick-me-up, the taurine actually would have more of a sedative effect on the brain,” the scientists said .
    “Remarkably little is known about the effects of energy drinks on the brain. We can’t even be sure how much of the taurine in the drink actually reaches the brain! Assuming that some of it does get absorbed, the taurine — which, if anything, seems to have a sedating effect on the brain — may actually play a role in the ‘crash’ people often report after drinking these highly-caffeinated beverages. People have speculated that the post-Red Bull low was simply a caffeine-rebound effect, but it might also be due to the taurine content.”
That’s a huge concern because it’s become trendy with young people to mix the drinks with alcohol. The daily serving of Taurine should be between 100-500mg, and one can of a popular energy drink, for example, has 1000 milligrams of synthetically produced Taurine. Some people are drinking up to eight cans a day (8000mg of Taurine), an amount that can have drug-like effects on the body. Current research on the interaction between taurine and caffeine, not to mention the interaction between these ingredients and alcohol, is nonexistent. Furthermore, mixing stimulants with sedatives, especially alcohol, is potentially risky.There’s no magic bullet for strength and endurance. Energy — true energy — comes from a healthy diet rich in raw foods. I would recommend that you avoid energy drinks altogether, mostly for their high caffeine and sugar content. Treat them like , or even worse. The lofty claims on these drinks for instant vitality are simply outrageous. A good, varied diet of whole organic live foods gives you all the Taurine you need, without the highs and lows of energy drinks. Natural Taurine is actually beneficial for the body and can be found in , meat, fish, and eggs, and for vegetarians it can be found seaweed. The daily allotment of Taurine should be no higher than 500mg; however, higher amounts from food have shown no toxic effects. Make sure you exercise and get enough sleep, and remember, medicine and illness can zap your energy. Stay properly hydrated with lots of purified water, especially when you’re exercising hard or you’re stressed. It’s a good idea to drink lots of water regardless. Take a pass on the “crash and burn” high from  and  – and taurine. The ingredients of these drinks, both mysterious and some not too mysterious, are a recipe for disaster. They may “give you wings,” but you’ll soon come tumbling down – and in the long run, crash really hard.Everyone needs a boost once in a while, some more often than others. However, I urge you to avoid toxic energy drinks at all times. Instead, eat plenty of . This means fruits and vegetables—nature’s turbo boosters. Consider taking a Vitamin B-12 supplement, such as . It’s a healthy way to naturally promote energy production, without bringing you crashing down a few hours later.
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.An eye opening article. As a society we remain gullible to false claims made in the slick advertising campaigns that promote these products.I’m amazed by how prevalent these drinks have become in our society. Everyone is chasing the promise of unlimited energy without really considering the side effects of these artificial chemicals.This article does point out that Taurine consumption is not harmful in moderate amounts. If this article is meant to steer people away from drinking these energy drinks, it should focus more on the dangers of the ridiculous amount of sugar and caffeine that are contained in these energy drinks. Both of these ingredients have been proven to be a cause of the “crash” that most people experience when consumed in high amounts. Many people who drink these energy drinks experience this type of crash which causes them to drink more to keep that rush of energy they are seeking; thereby consuming seriously dangerous amounts of sugar, caffeine, and the other substances found in these energy drinks, including taurine. I agree, these energy drinks are dangerous and unhealthy. However, there are healthy, more effective drinks out there that DO contain moderate amounts of Taurine. People should not automatically disregard the use of these effective and healthy drinks if more energy is what they need, just because it contains taurine. One great thing this article does offer is the safe daily dose of taurine. Before consuming any type of energy drink, make sure the levels of taurine fall within these limits.I have been saying to everyone I know for the past few years that it is crazy how only about 5 years ago you could walk into a convinience store and see maybe a shelf of energy drinks, but today, there is a case or two dedicated to them!  It just goes to show how run down everyone is and how rushed we all feel to perform.  Instead of having enough time to get a good nights sleep and eat healthy, energy giving foods, people are looking for the quick fix.  Hopefully these drinks come and go like that drink “Jolt,” but actually I am afraid, for now, they are here to stay.Very interesting, thanks for that.  It’s so refreshing to read a sound medical article about the effects of energy drinks.  The scary part, of course, being how little we actually know.  It really worries me to think about what we’ll learn ten years down the line when the effects of the energy drink craze starts to rear its ugly head, particularly for the young people with growing bodies that most energy drink companies shamelessly market towards.  Fantastic read, thanks again.Great article.  I still have a hard time understanding how people can be so dumb to drink these energy drinks.  I pretty much stay away from them.  The only one I’ll drink is Rev3 which is a natural energy drink and doesn’t cause me to crash.  Even then, I only drink Rev3 on occasion. Thanks!Taurine isn’t stimulating. It helps to calm down nerve transmission in the heart and the brain. It’s used in energy drinks to prevent overstimulation and used as a safety net to prevent them from causing a heart attack from their comsumption. Taurine is used successfully for those with epileptic seizures and brain injuries that have led to seizures.Thank you for posting a comment. I should have pointed out that Taurine stimulates the development of the CNS. Thanks for pointing that out. There is also a big difference between consuming synthetic or naturally occurring nutrients such as Taurine. Synthetic nutrients are devoid of  their energetic value which you do not lose from nutrients in live food sources. I believe that anything in excess can be harmful to the body, and drinking 5-10 cans daily of these drinks over a period of time will have a negative effect on the adrenals, and the body in general. Its not just the Taurine but the combination of all of the ingredients in these drinks. Below are some additional studies for you to review. In your reference to Taurine helping seizures please take a look at the following two references:1 – Department of Neurology, Barrow Neurological Institute, St. Joseph’s Hospital and Medical Center, Phoenix, AZ 58013, USA.
Energy drinks contain a mixture of compounds, of which caffeine, guarana, and herbal supplements such as ginkgo and ginseng are major components. Survey of popular literature reveals anecdotal observations of adverse events associated with consumption of energy drinks. However, there are no reported cases in the published literature. We report a series of four patients who had discrete seizures on multiple occasions, following heavy consumption of energy drinks. Once the patients were abstinent from the energy drinks, no recurrent seizures were reported. We propose that the large consumption of energy drinks rich in caffeine, taurine, and guarana seed extract could have provoked these seizures.2 – Epilepsy Behav. 2007 May;10(3):504-8. Epub 2007 Mar 8.
New-onset seizures in adults: possible association with consumption of popular energy drinks.
Development of the CNSTaurine modulation of calcium flux in the retina is particularly interesting. In a model of experimental regeneration of goldfish retina, a system for the study of central nervous system regeneration (Landreth and Agranoff, 1979), taurine was demonstrated to stimulate neuritic growth by increasing calcium influx (Lima et al., 1988, 1993). Taurine is known to produce stimulation of Ca2+ uptake in the whole-rat retina and in isolated rod outer segments (ROS) under conditions of low micromolar Ca2+ concentrations (for review, see Lombardini, 1991). In these previous studies, stimulation by taurine was observed to be concentration-dependent, up to a concentration of 32 mM (Militante and Lombardini, 1998a). The effect of taurine is assumed to be dependent on binding to the plasma membrane with or without the subsequent uptake into the cell, although the mechanism of action behind the effects of taurine is currently unclear (Fig. 1).Naunyn Schmiedebergs Arch Pharmacol. 2003 Aug;368(2):134-41. Epub 2003 Jul 26.
The effects of systemically administered taurine and N-pivaloyltaurine on striatal extracellular dopamine and taurine in freely moving rats.
Division of Pharmacology and Toxicology
University of Helsinki
POB 56, 00014
Helsinki, FinlandThe second most abundant cerebral amino acid, taurine, is widely consumed in the so-called “energy drinks”. Therefore, its possible actions on the brain are of great interest. In the present experiments taurine was given intraperitoneally to rats in order to study if it can be administered systemically in large enough amounts to alter cerebral dopaminergic transmission or to induce hypothermia. In addition, the effects of subcutaneously administered lipophilic taurine analogue, N-pivaloyltaurine, were studied. The extracellular striatal taurine and dopamine concentrations were estimated using in vivo microdialysis in awake and freely moving rats, and the rectal temperatures were measured. Taurine at the total dose of 45 mmol/kg i.p. led to a maximally 8-fold increased striatal extracellular taurine concentration, induced a long-lasting hypothermia, and significantly reduced the striatal extracellular dopamine concentration. The latter effect was strengthened by co-treatment with reuptake inhibitor nomifensine.N-pivaloyltaurine (15 mmol/kg in total, s.c.) only slightly elevated the striatal extracellular taurine concentration, failed to alter the rectal temperature, and in contrast to taurine somewhat elevated the striatal extracellular dopamine concentration suggesting a different mechanism or locus of action from that of taurine. Finally, our experiments using brain microdialysis confirmed the earlier findings that taurine is slowly eliminated from the brain. The results clearly indicate that systemically given taurine enters the brain in concentrations that induce pharmacological effects.Amino Acids. 2007 Sep;33(3):451-7. Epub 2006 Oct 20.Rapid analysis of taurine in energy drinks using amino acid analyzer and Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy as basis for toxicological evaluation. Triebel S, Sproll C, Reusch H, Godelmann R, Lachenmeier DW.
 Chemisches und Veterinäruntersuchungsamt (CVUA) Karlsruhe, Karlsruhe, Germany.So-called energy drinks with very high amounts of taurine (up to 4000 mg/l are usually granted by certificates of exemption) are increasingly offered on the market. To control the currently valid maximum limits of taurine in energy drinks, a simple and rapid analytical method is required to use it routinely in food monitoring. In this article, we describe a fast and efficient analytical method (FTIR-spectroscopy) that is able to reliably characterize and quantify taurine in energy drinks. The determination of taurine in energy drinks by FTIR was compared with amino acid analyzer (ion chromatography with ninhydrin-postcolumn derivatization). During analysis of 80 energy drinks, a median concentration of 3180 mg/l was found in alcohol-free products, 314 mg/l in energy drinks with spirits, 151 mg/l in beer-containing drinks and 305 mg/l in beverages with wine. Risk analysis of these products is difficult due to the lack of valid toxicological information about taurine and its interferences with other ingredients of energy drinks (for example caffeine and alcohol). So far, the high taurine concentrations of energy drinks in comparison to the rest of the diet are scientifically doubtful, as the advertised physiological effects and the value of supplemented taurine are unproven.Med J Aust. 2009 Jan 5;190(1):41-3
Cardiac arrest in a young man following excess consumption of caffeinated “energy drinks”.
Port Macquarie Base Hospital, Port Macquarie, NSW, Australia.
An otherwise healthy 28-year-old man had a cardiac arrest after a day of motocross racing. He had consumed excessive amounts of a caffeinated “energy drink” throughout the day. We postulate that a combination of excessive ingestion of caffeine- and taurine-containing energy drinks and strenuous physical activity can produce myocardial ischaemia by inducing coronary vasospasm.Thanks again,–Dr. GI was just curious, and totally respect your opinion about energy drinks. I was 35 way back when, when I drove a Big Truck Over the Road. A Newby and eager to learn, not really paying attention to the regulations, I wanted to keep driving and making more money.. paid by the mile ya know!Well the caffine pills seemed to be the way to go at the time. Energy Drinks were not even a factor back then. To make a long story short, I had a minor heart attack at 35 heading to Birmingham, Alabama. No more No Dose For Me To Say The Least!Still no actually proof. I guess time will tell.there is always that one person that has to make a conversation interesting.i have been drinking energy drinks for many years and i have never had any problems with them.so everyone tell me this are you all just maybe over reacting i mean seriously.Alchol is worst then drinking energy drinks…i dont drink,and i will drink 15 or more energy drinks before i touch a beer or any alcoholic beverage.Just curious, but if both Taurine and alcohol are essentially depressants, how is it more dangerous to mix them, other than the obvious added effect that alcohol has on the system? And in the article it specifically states that no one is sure how much of the synthetic Taurine is even getting to the brain. I’m not saying that energy drinks re healthy by ny mean, as even the “all natural” aren’t good for anyone to drink on a regular basis (much like Gatorade). Just saying, that maybe the Taurine isn’t what you’re really after if you’re looking to spook people into not buying these things.My son recently lost a 25 year old friend. Following an autopsy, cause of death was determined to be from the use of high energy drinks in combination with exercise.  He was found by a room mate in his bed and his death was from heart failure. A six pack of energy drinks were found in his room. These drinks have been banned in France (Red Bull), Sweden, and Norway where deaths were suspected to be related to these drinks.  How important is the bottom line (profit from these drinks), when more and more evidence connects their use with the untimely death of their young users?not sure where you’re located but we ship! if you drink that many energy drinks, maybe you should change it to one that you wont need to. TI’m as grossed out by energy drinks as the next person, and I prefer to try to eat well and get as much sleep as possible, but I would like to point out that Switzerland is not in fact a Scandinavian country. It’s difficult to take an article seriously when it says “some Scandinavian countries, like Switzerland..”
There are several other countries between Switzerland and Scandinavia, as similar as they may seem.I am so glad someone else agrees!! Switzerland must be Scandinavian, it starts with S!!
Anyone who needs energy drinks to give them a boost, has a whole lot more wrong with them than some hocus pocus poison artificial sweety drink is ever going to be able to fix. Really, the fact that they are wolfed down so voraciously by people of all ages causes me to consider that maybe we humans deserve every bit of bother Mother Nature has and will throw at us.
Drink some rain water, you fools.Well, I think I should inform you JJ, you most definitely do have some problems. In fact, you have several. One glaringly obvious problem, resulting from a reaction to drinking copious amounts of artificially sweetened “energy” drinks is the inability of the afflicted, to spell, or apply the correct rules of grammar.
Secondly, there is frequently found a disturbing lack of personal insight or reason, which disables the drinker’s powers of rational thought, allowing said drinker to imbibe quantities of aforementioned toxic liquid, in volumes sufficient to immobilise whole herds of pachyderms.
Yes, it’s a long sentence. It’s also perfectly grammatacised!!
Word!Concentrate now James.
Where did they put the secret recipe for the magical concentration serum? Is it in the hidden message that’s implanted in your pineal gland, that you access when you come back from riding on your unicorn, with the other spirit people that you met at Law of Attraction boot camp?
No?
Is it written in code in The Secret?
Can you only understand it if Oprah tells you it’s okay?
Oh?
Now, count backwards from ten, nine,
right, you’re under!
You are a hologram, you do not exist in three dimensional reality, you are made of moonbeams and pretty little fragments of light.
Drink this lolly water, and you will forever live here in the fourth dimension.
It’s a great place to visit, James, but you won’t like it when you have to live here.I for one can tell you that I’m hooked on these Energy drinks (made by M..I’e suffered from chronic fatigue for years. I picked one up a few years ago on  a day I was weaker than usual.I also have radiculopathy in both feet ( oscillating electrical type shock feeling and my toes feel like their in a vise)As expected I noticed an energy boost and I enjoyed the flavor much better than any soda pop I’ve had over the last 50 years. What I didn’t expect was a reduction of the shock type pain I describe in my feet.  I can’t describe how bad it can get other than say some of you would seek euthanasia if you dealt with this odd type of pain year after year.I’ll be the first one to admit that I’m a bit of a penny pincher.  I’d just as soon as buy some koolade as spend 5 to 10 pucks on a case of sodas.Now I find myself spending nearly $30 a case at BJ’s for these energy drinks and I often buy 2 cases each visit. THAT’S CRAZY but I’ve tried a lot of drugs for this feet pain Lyrica, Neurontin, valium and Xanax. Only strong opiates truly work none of the drugs help but for some reason I notice I can tollerate the pain with these energy drinks. I started drinking one a day then when I noticed the reduction of pain I started drinking 2 a day now I’m up to 5 or 6 a day. I’ve been taking them at the 5 or 6 a day level for about a year. My last radiologist report stated that I had Ostepenia. (Pre-Osteoporosis) I already had one L-1 spine burst fracture repaired where the doctors inserted a cage. That was 14 months ago. Now my latest MRI & CT scans show that I have 2 or possibly 3 more compression fractures. Compression fractures will happen at least once for 50% ladies (I’m a man) after their 70’s “IF” they have osteoporosis. Being this is rare in your 50’s I decided to search the net for why my bone were fracturing. [Many compression fractures heal on their own] I was shocked to find some common factors causing or making bones loose calcium and minerals and they are soda pop, sugar and caffeine. After reading this I knew I had to stop these drinks. Hell I’m on disability income. These drinks are over $2.50 each at quick stores. Some days that I cant make it to the warehouse store I end up paying more than $10 just to get through a day but I try not to run out of the cases. I might add that I’e had all types of trouble trying to adjust my hours. I used to get to bed after the 11 pm news but these drinks were keeping me up until daylight to many times.Keep in mind I’ve had a fairly uninterrupted supply of the E drinks for the last year. Armed with this new information I knew I’d better stop these E-drinks or my spine would fall apart and or I could become diabetic if I continued consumption of all that sugar.  I have a buddy that comes over on weekends for handyman stuff. He was headed over last weekend. I had run out of e-drinks and he usually picked me up a few each time he came over. I explained to him that I didn’t understand it but I was so depressed. I didn’t have an ounce of energy and forwarned him that I would likely be stuck in my rocking chair while he was here. I added would you pick us up some e-drinks and he asked when I had my last one. After I explained that after I ran out I elected not to go get more since they are bad for my spine. He told me your feeling bad because of the e-drinks. He makes fair money but get paid every 2 weeks. He says he’s got to have one or two a day otherwise he will be grouchy with his girl and her kids.I’d read an article where they said e-drinks were as addictive as crystal meth. (A get high drug) I laughed then but I’m not laughing now. I know its a do or die kind of deal with myself but Im going to miss the flavor they are truly delicious. I’m a pill taker and if you are also you know that awful taste you can wake with.  I used to drink (and looked forward to) a nice hot cup of cofee. I used nutrasweet instead of sugar back then (seems like a decade ago) but now I was waking up at 5am to 1 pm and heading straight to the fridge for an e-drink. What gets me about these e-drinks is how fast I down them. Before 30 minutes Ie downed 2 or 3 of them then I slack off. I’m going to try and stop these suckers. Who would have dreamed I would have got hooked on sodas. I’ve smoked dope and other goodies in my days and honestly never remember feeling so darned depressed. Now I worry that kids or teenagers might not have the correct logic to deal with the depression and possibly make a wrong decision.Dr. Oz show this Tuesday was all I needed to hear to promote my abstinence but many posters are correct. Dr. Oz forgot to point out that above all the ingredients (at least the ones they list) it states “2 servings” so one must double the totals for each can that they drink. Dr. OZ only 1/2 calculated the girl that drinks 16 cans a day. As if it were not bad enough she actually consumed twice what they showed on TV.Well folks wish me luck. I wish I knew what drug or drugs help my neuropathy (radiculopathy almost the same) there may be some help in the E-drink concoction for people like me especially all the folks suffering from diabetic neuropathy. Maybe some pharmacy major or scientist will catch on? Once I get over the detox part Im going to have to learn to live with the rebound foot pain. (For folks that never herd of it please note it is nothing like how your feet feel after standing an 8 hour shift this pain is in a class by itself.O yes I must add I do take other medications that can skew my thought pattern but lately Ie had a terrible time concentrating on any one task. I rarely finish a task before Im on to another task. It’s like I simply can’t think straight I will chalk that up to the E-drinks for now. If I can remember and they don’t close this thread I will re-post with the outcome of my quest to stop. At this point Ive settled for a day on and a day off and a reduction from 5 or 6 to 2 or 3 drinks on the day on. Once I get to one drink eery other day I think I can get off of them.Who would have ever dreamed. The FDA or some body needs to control anything that we consume on a commercial basis. And what constitutes a drug?  If our beef is inspected why not our sodas. Also rather than the manufacturer printing the words 2,000 mg energy blend the blend must be listed for each chemical or ingredient in it. I never thought about the pesticide angel and that they are used for the crops of some of the ingredients. People, we have to do something. We can not continue to be the lab rats  of the world with Japan sending us lead based toys for our tots and dangerous drywall for our homes. Big Lots also sells energy drinks but their only 60 to 75 cents for a 16 oz but most appear flavors or brands that didn’t make it for whatever reason. I worry about what chemical or pesticides I might have taken. One thing is for sure I will never assume the FDA tests anything. Heck we know the drug companies just pay off the right people. Have you ever seen so many drugs recalled and or on the market but creating severe reactions.Wish me luck. I hope my post helps someone. If you have yet to drink an energy drink do yourself a big favor and  DON’T.Coleyare you a doctor ? lol go to sleepAwesome blog. It’s so refreshing to read for all the readers a sound medical topics about the effects of energy drinks. For all the teenager must stay away of this energy drinks to have a good healthy life.I have done “extensive” research into energy drink effects and the corresponding effects of their components. (the “extensive” is in quotes because very little is actually known about the collective effects of these drinks) I hold no contention to the main body of this article but I have to disagree with a bit of the information presented at the end. I do feel the effects of an energy drink immediately after finishing a can so the assertion that it is simply a placebo effect is moot. I also think that energy drinks should be viewed at through a scope scrutinizing specificity. Certain energy drinks, namely, the Focus brand of AMP energy, are actually quite good for you. Aside from the obvious presence of caffeine the main ingredients of the energy blend have well-documented positive effects on neural activity. Choline is one of the most important amino acids in the brain. It improves memory, calmness, ability to focus, and is also linked to increased Alpha Wave activity. Additionally this particular energy drink also contains a decent amount of Theanine which, when coupled with caffeine, actually produces an incredibly notable calming effect. It has been proven to have a connection to increased Alpha Wave activity as well. Albeit slightly high in caffeine content the benefits of its symbiotic relationship with the aforementioned ingredients justifies the stimulant’s use. Chemicals that augment Alpha Wave activity in the brain exhibit an equivalent effect to a concentration of only the positive characteristics of psychoactive substances. The increased presence of Alpha Waves allows individuals to access parts of the brain that are not typically used in a normal state of mind. In scientific literature individuals taking part in meditative actions such as reciting mantras, yoga, or intense concentration show notably more alpha wave activity than those not taking part. Therefore concluding that there is a strong correlation between alpha wave activity and focus, acute awareness, faster reaction time, greater self-control, and even preemptive awareness (normal ESP). Although this is an isolated example there are other supplements similar in content and the effects show little risk for the possible outcomes that you mentioned in the article. Given, there are energy drinks with unnecessary amounts of caffeine and other harmful chemicals but as with any substance in existence negative effects can be mitigated with moderation and good judgement. However such generalizations about this class of products are slanted, and anything but objective. Energy drinks are not de facto harmful substances. The herbal blends and complementary chemical relationships hold quite a bit of potential for positive outcomes, ignoring these implications would be entirely subjectively biased. In conclusion, I enjoyed reading your article and I look forward to other posts. My suggestion would be an investigation into the addictive properties of high caffeine contents. That, I believe, is the most prominent risk of energy drinks. Dependency related to excessive coffee consumption is incredibly well documented in scientific literature. Another subject for research could be the frequency of FDA discovery of carcinogenic ingredients in products such as these. E.G. excessive consumption of Phenylalanine, particularly with those who suffer from Phenylketonuria. Good luck and look forward to reading again soon.I take mine 500Mg because of my liver problems, I have a deficiency in Taurine. And I am strong supporter of the idea of taking breaks after using any supplement 2 weeks straight (either herbal or synthetic). As for the idea of drinking Milk… There was a warning for folks of after-certain-age, especially with liver problems. The cow isn’t not a surrogate mum, although there was a report of the Chinese trying to breed cows with such ability, milk-wise, of course 😉 Not sure about if I am ready for that 😉 But what am pretty sure in, is that these “energy drinks” are plain dangerous scam.My teenage grand daughter has been drinking energy drinks [she is 15} for some time now and just recently she has become VERY aggressive. Does anyone think the two are connected ? {we have stopped her drinking them for now}Red Bull Rocks!  Drink it up babyJon,
Thank you for your post!  I tend to agree with you, however, it is the use of synthetic blends of ingredients in these drinks that is also a reason for concern.  I have yet to find a completely organic energy drink, this may be part of the reason for the “bias” approach. i get aggresive on coffein myselfhe probably died beacause of heart attack beacause of all the coffein and the training.. energydrinks are not good so much sugar and people sometimes drinks so much and get to much coffein.. but they sell   energydrinks in norway with and without taurine, i live in oslo. Thank you very much.  This was very informative.Taurine is also commonly found in patients with meningitis. Keep drinking that red bull.Taurine is an ingredient in baby formula as well…I wonder what affect regular consumption by babies has on their little systems?It’s not an amino acidPlease don’t call yourself a doctor because clearly you don’t have a MD. Synthetically produced Taurine and natural one are the same thing, they have identical chemical structure.You’re an idiotWhy don’t you dumbshits worry about more important things like all of the people who are addicted to illegal drugs that kill.  No, lets bash energy drinks and bitch about how unhealthy they are.  Who cares about “unhealthy” energy drinks, drugs kill people!!!!  Not caffiene and taurine.Taurine supplementation enabled me to stop abusing alcohol.  For 3 years I drank every day, often to excess, but from the very first day of taurine supplementation, I no longer felt the need or desire to drink…  It also alleviated my anxiety significantly and gave me the best sleep I have had in months…I supplement magnesium taurine to start my day and I always feel really calm, positive, and stress free. Although I sleep well anyway, I sometimes take it with Magnesium before bed and I sleep like a log. A recent observation: I am very sensitive to gluten and it wrecks havoc on my stomach when I eat gluten containing products. However, regular taurine supplementation seems to mitigate the effect that gluten has on me and I can eat some wheat products without feeling like an Alien is just about to rip its claws through my stomach.Many synthetically produced substances have adverse effects that their natural counterparts do not. Maybe before you critique someone else’s information, you should have correct information yourself.The combination of the high caffeine levels in these drinks mixed with alcohol are usually what causes the dangerous effects. The article states the mix of Stimulants and depressants. Also the label “all natural” means nothing, its not organic, it doesn’t mean that the substances are naturally produced, only that they are naturally occurring substances. Thus something labeled “all natural” can still be packed with synthetic substances. There are also no standards that go with that label, its a marketing trick to make you think it’s healthier, when in fact its no better. If this is a concern for you, seek out “organic” products instead.ND and MD training is very similar, just with different specialties. Do some research. The title “Dr.” is available to anyone whom has completed doctorate training and research – “MD’s” don’t have an exclusive right to use a title others have rightfully earned.I am a little concerned about the ingredient taurine as it is in my babies milk formula. Does anyone know about this or have any information or thoughts on this topic? Do you think the taurine in formula is natural or synthetic?No clue how this guy got a license to practice medicine, or where he found his supposed research on taurine. Peer reviewed scientific research has proven taurine to be not only safe in 3000mg per day doses, but extremely beneficial in several diseases and body functions. This guy needs to quit pretending to be a doctor before someone gets hurt.Taurine is used to treat all of the items Dr. Group claims it causes.  This guy is a fraud.  For what it’s worth, I don’t consume ANY energy drinks.I want you to know that you don’t have to drink all those energy drinks. Taurine is available as a supplement…I take 1/8 tsp per day and it has made all the difference in the world for my fibro and liver issues…within 48 hours I lost 8 lbs of fluid! I haven’t had any pins and needles either. I go 2 weeks on 1 week off…Best thing that’s ever happened to me!“Many synthetically produced substances have adverse effects that their natural counterparts do not…” -when they don’t have an identical chemical structure, which is often the case, but not with taurine- exactly as chan stated.  Why is his statement of fact so threatening to you?“Studies have implicated synthetic taurine in illnesses ranging from high blood pressure to strokes and seizures to heart disease…”  Name one. Show me a single published study that says this.  Did you know taurine is in breast milk?  Infant formulas are fortified with taurine, because it is essential to infants’ health.  An adult human is composed of about 0.1% taurine. Need I go on?Taurine is NOT an amino acid! God damnit!You are beyond clueless about Taurine. Your article reminds me of how so many articles lean toward big pharma cause there is no $$$ to be made in wellness. I realize you believe in wellness but get your facts straight on Taurine before you post crap like that.Kudos!While taurine is sometimes called an amino acid, and indeed is an acid containing an amino group, it is not an amino acid in the usual biochemical meaning of the term, which refers to compounds containing both an amino and a carboxyl group.Hi Rob,I’m sorry the article upset you, it wasn’t our intention to ruin your day. What information, specifically, do you take issue with? I’d like to see if we can find some common ground somewhere.-Dr. Edward GroupCaution: Careful when driving.  I remember, somewhere, high caffeine consumption, is attributed to “red light runners”.They put it in the formula because taurine is needed for brain development.  For brain tissue development, among other things.  I’m really disappointed in the fallacies of this article.Taurine is commonly found in all people since it  is one of the most plentiful amino acids in the human brain…..Errr….meant organic acid.  It is NOT an amino acid.I get so annoyed with fear-mongering articles like this, that have virtually no scientific basis to it.  It makes it hard to sift through to find things you actually should be afraid of.Okay, what annoys me about this article is the condemnation of taurine, which is probably the ONLY healthy thing in the energy drinks.  I could understand the ranting and raving against the sugar and caffeine, but, good grief, taurine is its only saving grace.  I have a taurine deficiency, so I know more than a little about it.  I was rolling my eyes all the way through reading this.  (Forced me to stop a lot).  Don’t write about things you know nothing about.I would also like to see links to those studies tying synthetic taurine to health problems.  There is no left and right molecule that indicates a difference in synthetic or natural taurine, like there is in amino acids, that changes the molecular makeup, so your body would not differentiate, and the two wouldn’t have different properties like some of the synthetic vs. natural amino acids do.  (Such as L-phenylalanine and D-phenylalanine, or even DL-phenylalanine).But you’ve named this story The Dangers of Taurine, Commonly Found in Energy Drinks , yet your studies mention other ingredients being a problem and energy drinks in general. If you are going to attack taurine, base it on facts about taurine.  If you are going to attack energy drinks, base it on facts about ALL the bad ingredients in energy drinks.Learn to frickin’ write an article.The epilepsy reference you mention is disappointing.  Most people with epilepsy can’t handle caffeine, and guarana is also caffeine.I’ve had epilepsy for years, even as a child, but since i found my taurine deficiency and supplement with a SYNTHETIC source, I no longer have seizures.  Apparently I don’t need the ‘energetic value of the food’.  As early as 2003, studies have been done linking taurine with helping epilepsy and it is irresponsible of you to throw in a study that includes caffeine and gaurana.As far as your last reference.  Really?  You’re going to reference a hospital ‘postulating’ that something ‘probably’ caused it?  That isn’t a study to me.Here is one for you:Adv Exp Med Biol. 2003;526:515-25.Prevention of epileptic seizures by taurine.El Idrissi A, Messing J, Scalia J, Trenkner E.SourceNew
 York State Institute for Basic Research in Developmental Disabilities
and The Center for Developmental Neuroscience, The City University of
New York, Staten Island, NY 10314, USA.AbstractParenteral
 injection of kainic acid (KA), a glutamate receptor agonist, causes
severe and stereotyped behavioral convulsions in mice and is used as a
rodent model for human temporal lobe epilepsy. The goal of this study is
 to examine the potential anti-convulsive effects of the neuro-active
amino acid taurine, in the mouse model of KA-induced limbic seizures. We
 found that taurine (43 mg/Kg, s.c.) had a significant antiepileptic
effect when injected 10 min prior to KA. Acute injection of taurine
increased the onset latency and reduced the occurrence of tonic
seizures. Taurine also reduced the duration of tonic-clonic convulsions
and mortality rate following KA-induced seizures. Furthermore, taurine
significantly reduced neuronal cell death in the CA3 region of the
hippocampus, the most susceptible region to KA in the limbic system. On
the other hand, supplementation of taurine in drinking water (0.05%) for
 4 continuous weeks failed to decrease the number or latency of partial
or tonic-clonic seizures. To the contrary, we found that taurine-fed
mice showed increased susceptibility to KA-induced seizures, as
demonstrated by a decreased latency for clonic seizures, an increased
incidence and duration of tonic-clonic seizures, increased neuronal
death in the CA3 region of the hippocampus and a higher post-seizure
mortality of the animals. We suggest that the reduced susceptibility to
KA-induced seizures in taurine-injected mice is due to an increase in
GABA receptor function in the brain which increases the inhibitory drive
 within the limbic system. This is supported by our in vitro data
obtained in primary neuronal cultures showing that taurine acts as a low
 affinity agonist for GABA(A) receptors, protects neurons against
kainate excitotoxic insults and modulates calcium homeostasis.
Therefore, taurine is potentially capable of treating seizure-associated
 brain damage.PMID:12908638 [PubMed – indexed for MEDLINE]It seems to me taurine is in energy drinks to help counter the excitotoxic insults caused by the stimulants in them.  If you are going to pick on an ingredient, pick on a different one.More than likely is synthetic like the rest of the ingredients. I recommend breast feeding and goat’s milk as the only alternative.I abuse energy drinks to combat the tiredness I feel that comes along with the high dose of anti epileptic medications. This worked very well for a period of time. Now I start to get auras just from half a can. Is it possible to discuss this with u further. I’m trying to lower my anti epileptics as far as I can in the hopes of starting a family. So I’m iut looking for other options. Hahah this article made me laugh.  So much bad logic and disinformation.  So much stupid and guilt by association.Taurine is not a stimulant, it is put into energy drinks to MITIGATE the excitotoxic effects of stimulants.  LOL.  And anybody who drinks Red Bulls for the taurine content is a moron.  Only pure taurine powder from a trusted vendor should be supplemented if that is someone’s goal.Taurine is often used in conjunction with so-called nootropics for the same reason, either in the place of or together with theanine.  Taurine also helps prevent vasodilatory migraines triggered by glutamate activity.  Taurine supplementation is commonly found to be helpful with autistic children, and speech delays.Taurine is added in infant formula, added in high-end cat and dog multivitamins and food and recommended by vets.Taurine does not make you crash later because again, it is not a stimulant.  It is the opposite, but not sedative enough to compromise your alterness.  Calms anxiety and aids in seizure prevention.  Helps with mild forms of insomnia.  It’s no surprise that taurine ‘seems to have sedative effects on the brain’. – DUHI have a feeling that the title of the article was deliberately misleading.  I see the same tactics in anti-evolution propaganda all over the internet.  It’s just pathetic.All you did was point out that ingesting insane amounts of caffeine is very very bad and can kill you outright.  Congratulations.TAURINE IS NOT AN AMINO ACID!!!!11!!Whaaaattttt?? All my life I have believed this! You have ruined my life “Anon”. And what is with the all caps?Taurine is in the Vitamin Water power-c flavor, which I drink for basketball. Now I really don’t wan;t to have taurine again. I’ll pick a different Vitamin water flavorYour article isn’t properly cited and contradicts common knowledge on taurine. More references would be nice.There’s nothing wrong with energy drinks such as red bull,  i take one before/during competition and i perform at a much higher standard than without!! Everything in moderation No it’s more likely to be in energy drinks because it gives you energy, duh.  What a silly blog article.  It has hundreds of positive effects.  Search on “taurine obesity” for an eye opener.Can you cite the sources for this statement? “Studies have implicated synthetic taurine in illnesses ranging from high blood pressure to strokes and seizures to heart disease.” Anytime you say “studies” or “research” in your writing you should cite the study  in question. This adds credibility to your argument.What is a good source of Taurine? Thanks….I have read and read and want to get one that is the real thing and produces results.
Does anyone know?Looks like it came from here-That isn’t  a scientific study reference. Nor does that reference state where their information is from.5 years later, but, Jolt is still around. It’s just lost a lot of market share to the new energy drinks.ya ! its really harmful too to those, who are already used to prefer meat before the energy drink like RED BULL famous all over the world..
i want to take some action to ban it , the Taurine is a fake amino acid then why they are  used it and made men full.
the common  person does not know about it..Why is there no citation on the studies linking Taurin to high blood pressure, seizures, and heart disease? Seriously, you’d think that’d be the #1 thing to back up in this article – it’s certainly the most interesting claim.Please take this from someone who is completely up-to-date on the latest research on taurine, it composes 0.1 % of human body weight, and is extremely valuable to have in one’s diet. It’s a blessing, and based on its functions can save your cells from death. Heres a lethal scenario it will save you from.. You eat a very large amount of salt and sugar from a McDonalds king size meal and it brings your blood level of both of these things to an extremely high level compared to what is inside your cells, which is a level reached before you ate. Your cells are defined as a small region which has a membrane enclosing it from the outside of it, and this is like its skin. This skin has pores though, an they let things in and out in response to whats inside and outside of them. When you add this much salt and sugar to the outside of them, they actually generate so much pressure to be inside the cells that your cells pop and die, particularly brain cells. Taurine is used by astroglia, a type of immune cell that lives with your neurons to support them all the time, and it would be released to change the pressure levels on your brain cells.
If caffiene created a squishing effect, the taurine would allow your brain cells to remain stimulated but also at safe pressure gradients 🙂If you have a heart condition is it ok to drink any products with this as an ingredient. I mix a powder that has this with my spring water and a little while later my chest starts to hurt on the heart side so should i stop drinking this.I’m 31, almost 32 and have been having grand mal seizures since I was about 17. Let me tell you, it sucks. I can usually tell when one is about to come. I become foggy and unable to concentrate. My hands and feet become real cold but sweaty. My stomach hurts and I feel nauseous but can’t throw up. I become extremely uncomfortable and fidgety. All of those feelings happen for about an hour or so before hand. It’s not the best experience. Even if take more medication when I feel one coming I’ll have one. —– At some point I gain consciousness after I don’t know how long with the worst headache and no memory whatsoever of what happened prior or minutes after an episode. Occasionally I’ll bite my tongue or cheek. I’ve tried almost every kind of epileptic medication and I still have breakthroughs. My long term memory is slowly deteriorating. There is nothing I can do except to spread love, pay it forward, and enjoy life while I am still able to. I am content and have accepted my future. When you notice someone having a seizure or about to have a seizure, try to put something soft under their head and stand back. Don’t hold them down. They will eventually snap out of it. that was how a friend ask me to email aishatheorginal for help , iam free now if you have lost hope now there is hope EMAIL.  or  for your help or call +2348148345303 there is hope now friendHis research findings seem quite different than other credibe sources out there, some of his findings seem OK, but I don’t trust his info on taurine.  Could it be that it’s just hard to manufacture taurine from organic sources to sell as supplements (since he’s a naturopathic doctor, everything he sells has to be organic or whatever), so he just persuades consumers into not buying it, but links you to buy his completely organic $80 bottle of vitamins instead.  He probably doesn’t see patients anymore because he is too busy creating organic products to sell, he probably makes a ton of money doing that.  His products seem awesome, but I have to wonder why he would slam taurine, and why his findings seem very biased:/Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Not sure where you get your information, but most of the information I’ve read is that Taurine is relaxing, not stimulating. It acts more like Gaba. My guess it’s in energy drinks to counter all the caffeine.  Also, Taurine is used by my doctor in high doses for heart issues. I read on a legit site that it can help with “Solution for Seizures, Taurine Reverses Cardiovascular Disease Factors, etc….” Yet you say side effects include “….strokes and seizures to heart disease”. It seems to me that everything you say about taurine is the opposite of what it actually does.Are you referring to a synthetic version of Taurine used in energy drinks vs. natural free-form Taurine in supplements?Confused!?The interesting part is they don’t mention that Taurine as a stand alone supplement (comes in powder and pill form) nullifies all of the “bad” side effects of this article.  Any negative they mention here has to do with it’s combination with caffeine.  Seems they have nothing bad to say about Taurine itself.  I take 3,000mg a day of it split into 3, and it’s done wonders for my mood, energy, and fitness.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()how does taurine affect the enviroment?This ‘article’ is just a FUD (fear, uncertainty, and doubt) sales pitch for Intramax.
I’m not suggesting that energy drinks are good for you.  But this is just another hysterical article about some substance being ‘dangerous.’  Then once the reader is sufficiently worried, another product is suggested to solve the same problem without the FUD.
This is why I hate the internet sometimes.One other thing – the author of this article is warning you that it ‘might’ be unhealthy to drink energy drinks because taurine. He then goes on to try to sell you a muti-vitamin supplement.  Did he mention anywhere in the article the mountains of research showing that multi-vitamin supplementation increases the risk of getting cancer?What are you talking about, Bethany? Maybe I’ve missed it but I haven’t found the hysteria in this article that appears to be upsetting your blood sugar. Don’t they say that taurine isn’t dangerous and is actually good? How ironic that your point is spot on. One of the worst things about the internet IS people who don’t read past the headlines, which is clearly what happened here.Wikipedia quotes a study that claims the “lethal” dose is 50mg / kg of body weight, but also states that a later study could not duplicate the results from high levels.  If a 185 pound person is consuming more then 4000mg of taurine, they are in danger of overdosing other ingredients first.Because it lowers BP … Taurine, a sulfur-containing amino acid, has been reported to have antihypertensive and sympatholytic activity.   [40]  Nineteen patients with borderline hypertension were supplemented with 6 g taurine daily for seven days in a double-blind, placebo-controlled study. Systolic BP in the 10 taurine-treated patients decreased an average of 9 mm Hg compared with a 2 mm Hg decrease in the nine patients treated with placebo; diastolic BP in the taurine-treated patients decreased an average of 4 mm Hg compared with 1 mm Hg in the placebo-treated subjects. Taurine supplementation resulted in a significant decrease in plasma epinephrine but not norepinephrine levels. Individuals with hypertension tend to have higher epinephrine compared to people with normal blood pressure.   [41]  Research shows taurine relaxes blood vessels by enhancing endorphin production, resulting in lowered blood pressure.   [42,43] I take 6 grams per day … yay … good for the eyes too… For and extensive review of Taurine google this article … “The Forgotten Longevity Benefits of Taurine” the paper is backed by scientific papersNo disrespect to the Dr who wrote this, but I would agree with another poster, please learn how to write an article. The title is very misleading. No dangers of taurine are mentioned in the article, but the alarming title makes you think that taurine is some evil chemical. All the dangers mentioned are for sugar and caffeine and this is not news to anyone. If the research shows that high amount of taurine has no harmful effect why you are recommending daily allotment of not more than 500 mg? Talking about pulling numbers out of you know what. This page is number one hit on Google for keywords ‘taurine caffeine’. Please show some responsibility in what you share with others.I work a small business and one employee drinks an average of six of the one that gives you wings per shift, then takes one for the ride home. My observation of her is that of a type of speed. She cannot be still. She sweats even from her face. She has great personal outward appearance but, I’m worried about the possible heart problems that may come with the ever so popular energy drinks. Anything I should be aware of, or possible warning signs to look for? Six in ONE shift?? That’s insane and ridiculously unhealthy, and probably dangerous, for at least two dozen reasons. What is her reasoning? She needs to cool it. Yes, you are right, it is like speed. Sounds like she’s already exhibiting warning signs. Can’t stand still, sweating while at rest… this is behavior she needs to change immediately. Less energy drinks, more water.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()You know synthetic != natural, right?It may be the synthetic B6 that’s in these drinks. It is poison (pyridoxine hydrochloride). Excessive sweating is one of the symptoms of B6 toxicity. BEWARE. Symptoms mimic MS … And now I learn the taurine is also synthetic. NOT GOOD.Please be careful of these energy drinks. Not only is the taurine synthetic, but so is the vitamin B6. Pyridoxine hydrochloride can cause toxicity, as it’s not the natural form of B6, and can build up in muscles and cause symptoms that mimic MS. I have a group on Facebook called “Exploring B6 Toxicity” and we have members who’ve become toxic on as little as 2 mg of synthetic B6. I would not trust ANY synthetic vitamin, including taurine.He didn’t read or understand the article .This gal is not getting enough salt. You need salt to hold water in your body. Sudden cardiac arrest could come from a pottasium imbalance from drinking excess fluids, a smaller possibility.Lol… What 15yo girl is NOT aggressive. Maybe she just started her periods. Prime example of anecdotal “evidence”…to tom Ube,Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Like fr fr, this article is BS, I read 3/4 of it and it’s BS. Sure, taurine is natural, it’s in a lot of foods, drinks, and even in breast milk (from what i read in the comments). It produces inside the human body, it helps 3 kinds of systems, but (okay, you see “but” and think here we go with more BS, no no no) just don’t consume too much. When I read, “Found in the bile of bulls” I thought it’s found in the Sh*t of bulls? I discovered it’s a bulls intestines! Guess what?? It’s in our body too!! *gasps sarcastically*  THEN, OMG, I kept seeing, “The researchers” and “The scientists”, remembering in math class, how many researchers and/or scientists? Like for all we know, it’s 2 scientists than like 10 or 20. At the bottom of “Taurine Side Effects” section, that 3 deaths are caused by taurine. I thought, “So? Tf? 3 Deaths since 2002? (Year Monster Energy was released) Then I have A good chance of NOT dying.” YEAH, I READ THIS ARTICLE WITH A (empty) MONSTER IN MY LAP, EATING SUNFLOWER SEEDS! (Originial btw)
– A 14-Year Old with an OpinionPingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Yet one more article declaring how awful energy drinks are for you, with nothing to back it up. Here’s how it usually goes…FILLED WITH SUGAR AND CAFFEINE AND UNHEALTHY ADDITIVES DON’T DRINK IT blah blah blah. A)I’ve never crashed from an energy drink, anymore than I’ve crashed from coffee.
B)Taurine is an EXCELLENT anxiolytic, and I sometimes take it with or without the caffeine, as a supplement.
C)I go sugar free, because I’m not a fan of sugar. And I don’t pound drink after drink. One or two a day, like one or two cups of coffee really seems to do the trick for me.
D)Red Bull has only 70 mg of caffeine, about half of what you get in a cup of coffee. Others have up to 200, which is about what you get in a cup of coffee. So, no coffee now? Try telling that to the 100 million Americans who drink coffee. Also, study after study have confirmed that caffeine is NEUROPROTECTIVE against both Parkinson’s, Alzheimer’s and general oxidative damage in the brain. As with anything, moderation is the key. Keep it down to a few a day, don’t pound them all day long, and you’ll likely live longer.So energy drinks are the key to good health and everlasting life, ok, got it.Pingback: ()Unfortunately, I feel your review, although having some facts. It fails in a few regards that could make an educated reader instantly ignore you. For example, purified water for hydration? Nope, it will actually dehydrate you by leaching minerals from your body. Further, only 2 references… on such a controversial topic. I’ll make a right themIt’s still exactly the same formula, and in many cases safer, as it one knows the exact amount of intake as this varies in food sources. The fact that it is synthetically produced makes absolutely no difference at all.Interestingly, about a year ago, I was in severe withdrawals from abrupt xanax withdrawal. I was unable to come off at the pace the new Dr wanted and as a result, i was a total wreck craving alcohol 24/7 despite never being an alcoholic. Went to a new Dr and he gave me GabaPentin 400mg 4 times a day and baclofen 2 times a day. A year later, I am able to reduce the gabapentin to 3 per day but cant go any lower. The withdrawls are gone but the negative effect of gabapenten are killing me. Ive ordered Theanine but it wont be until next week. Since they are both related to gaba, Im thinking theanine might help me reduce gabapenten.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Dangerous amount of caffeine? Can of monster has 140mg per can. Some have sugar some dont. Get you a latte, cold brewed moxha coffee etc from Starbucks, Dunkin Donuts and then make a effort to look at how much sugar, caffeine is in those. Wait…its not synthetic right? Body doesnt know that.Preservatives in energy drinks can be a concern but preservatives are in about everything you consume if your not checking.You ever seen whats in pre workout supps? Are fitness/weight lifting enthusiast falling over dead and put on CNN?Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Taurine helped me ELIMINATE muscle cramps from working out and taking testosterone (doctor prescribed). Sometimes by adominal muscles would cramp so hard it looked like ALIENS were bursting out.  800ml red bull a day max and zinc supplementation and the cramps VANISHED!Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Most of the energy drinks only have caffeine equal to 1 cup of coffee. I don’t call that tons of caffeine.How is 140mg of caffeine equaling about one cup of coffee considered a high level? Do you think people should give up their 1-2 cups of coffee a day?