Although we can find many foods in the supermarket that have been fortified with a synthetic form of vitamin D, there are only a select number of foods that naturally contain vitamin D.Normally, the human body makes its own vitamin D; exposure to sunlight is the catalyst for the synthesis of this hormone in the skin. But today, many people spend countless hours indoors, and exposure to the sun is limited. This fact may be a root cause of many ailments, including a depressed mood and weak bones. With age, bones can become weak and thin. Although you can’t turn back the hands of time, good nutrition is one of the best ways to encourage your body to be its best. Vitamin D is one nutrient in particular that supports normal bone density and strength. I follow an organic vegan diet and try to get a little sunlight every day. When I need a little extra vitamin D, I consume Shiitake mushrooms or take a vitamin D supplement. I recommend Global Healing Center’s . This premium vitamin D supplement is all-natural, vegan, and GMO-free. Because I have received so many requests for other sources of vitamin D, I decided to post the following non-vegan food sources. I must say, however, that  for optimum health.Foods High in Vitamin DLength:  5 minutesDried shiitake mushrooms are high in vitamin D. Shiitake, button, and oyster mushrooms are also rich in vitamins B1 and B2. To benefit from the high vitamin D content, make sure that you find mushrooms that have been dried in the sun, not by artificial means.A 3-ounce portion of this omega-3-rich fish will give you 90% of your recommended daily amount of vitamin D. The FDA recommends that Americans eat oily fish for their omega-3 essential fatty acids (EFA’s).A small 3-ounce portion of cooked salmon will give you 90% of the recommended dietary intake of vitamin D. Make sure to purchase salmon that was caught from the wild or sustainably farmed.Herring are high in vitamin D because they thrive on plankton, which is a hearty source of vitamin D.Sardines are one of the best dietary sources of vitamin D. One small tin can of sardines will provide you with approximately 101% of your daily needs. These tiny canned fish are also a great source of vitamin B-12, omega-3 fatty acids, protein, and selenium.Catfish are a freshwater fish that have a habit of feeding on minuscule organisms that use sunlight to produce vitamin D.You’ll have to eat 6 ounces of tuna daily to obtain 50% of your vitamin D needs. Fresh, wild-caught tuna is the most nutritious. Remember, oily fish can also provide the body with “good fats” that support memory and brain function.If you can stomach the strong aroma, this oil is super-rich in vitamin D. Just a teaspoon offers 113% of your daily vitamin D needs. This golden oil is also rich in . Incorporating this oil into your diet will promote strong, healthy bones. Some medical experts recommend taking vitamin D to , and optimize nervous system function.Eggs contain vitamin D in small amounts. Eating one egg will provide you with approximately 21% of your daily needs. It’s best to only consume free-range eggs from a , if possible.Okay, I know it’s not a food, but daily exposure to sunshine can seriously increase your vitamin D levels. In fact, this vitamin is often called the “sunshine vitamin.” When sunlight hits the skin, it stimulates the production of vitamin D from cholesterol. This is great news for those of us that can take a daily sun bath. But, for those of us who can’t, you must boost your intake from the foods you eat. This may explain why native Inuit people in Alaska ate so much fish!There are many reasons to add foods with vitamin D to your diet. The health benefits of the vitamin include:As I mentioned above, if you are a vegetarian or don’t eat fish, you can still reap the same benefits by taking a , or get plenty of sun on a daily basis.
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.Why didn’t milk make the list of foods containing vitamin d? That’s the first one that comes to my mind. Good to know that sardines have plenty of vitamin d, I love those little buggers.Thanks for providing this list. My wife and I just recently added a Vitamin D supplement after she did some research and (if I remember correctly) read some advice on how to properly supplement from Dr. Mercola. I had no idea that mushrooms could be a good source of Vitamin D. Good to know.Milk isn’t listed because in the US the vitamin D is added to it, not natural.  There is some naturally if you get milk from pastured cattle, but even that is only over the summer.But from what I can tell, listing shitake and other mushrooms is …. iffy at best.  4 oz of dried shitakes gives like 175 units of D (and most of that D2 not D3). So it would be about 10 oz of DRIED shitakes for 400 units.  10 oz of dried shitakes would be like 5 cups or 60+ oz rehydrated.  That’s a shitake-load of mushrooms per day!Milk should not be consumed by humans. It is just pus and  blood…no nutritional value at all. All the good stuff is heated to death by pastuerization. Have you seen how a cow is milked and the whole process?I seriously concur that sunshine lifts the spirit while sunbathing in small doses using adequate protection is the best form to get quality vitamin D. And the best part about it is it’s all natural!I agree 100% with Annie!20 minutes in the sunshine is not a lot to ask from even the busiest executive and eating tuna daily is NOT the road to good health.  Fatty fish is very good for you, but not more than a couple of times a week.I had no idea that sun light could be a good source of Vitamin D. Good to know.I think sun light is the best resource of Vit. D and natural too.  Take directly from nature.Hi, That is good you are putting foods with Vitamin D. You say you do not eat meat. But fish is meat, give your head a shake.  I eat meat, but not all the time. Meat has protien and other essetial vitamins as well. Nothing wrong with  little meat. I see most vegetatarians, look a little pale most of the time. if they ate a small portion of meat, they would have some color to them. And would have a little more enegy. Thank you.if you want to get more vitamin D :
you must jogging more frequently in the morning and uder the morning sun rays, because sun in the morning contains a lots of vitamin D.Natural Gout RemediesI did not know thatI agree with Annie and Karen.Our medical authorities and TV food marketing ads preach “low fat, low cholesterol”. Top independent nutritionists make it pretty clear that without blood serum cholesterol the sun’s UV rays are unable to be converted to vitamin D3 by the human body.  Why the contradiction? Sun blocker profits?Right.  Also, has anyone noticed that the advice given here contravenes the FDA’s advice not to eat tuna more than once per week because of its high mercury content?Well, in fairness, he does say that he doesn’t eat these foods, because he’s a vegetarian. But because so many people want to know about foods with vitamin d. I would hope at this point, people widely know that eating too much tuna isn’t great for you.I agree. In general, u can never get too much of anything. Even too much sun won’t get you back.Wow, these are great sources of Vitamin D. Sunlight? I never expected this one, it’s great to be informed.Hi! I’m just wondering if cooking the fish or eating it raw is better. I don’t eat meat but I do eat fish and I love sushi. Just wondering if raw fish has the same benefits. Thanks.Vitamin D are crucial for the absorption and metabolism of calcium and phosphorous, which have various functions, especially the maintenance of healthy bones. It is an immune system regulator. Various studies have shown that people with adequate levels of vitamin D have a significantly lower risk of developing cancer, compared to people with lower levels.Hi ,Looking for Vitamin D foods I’ve landed here .I’m going to look more into your site but must submeet this : Youre recommandation’s are all sea foods ,xcept the sun .you need to know that a Class Action was served in Sin Francico this year against 10 of the biggest Fish oil producers .After you reaserch it ,or after you ask me for more on it , You will change [ so i hope ] this recommandetions .  You can’t eat see product safely anymore ,no matter from what sea you get them . We as humans have made all seas so poisonous that in my life time ,or yours ,no sea is safe again . I don’t know yet what is recommanded as Omega3 source ,if at all on on this site .But all prices of fish omega dropped over night ,for good and for a very good reason . It can’t be coverd here ,But PCB”S mercury ,arseniac ,& so many other names are  dripping to Oceans and seas every minute see food will never be safe again .  with your permission I’d like to send you more ,very methodical a scientific info on it .thanks ,moshe“catfish are constantly taking in minuscule sea life that create vitamin D from sunlight.”Sea life? catfish is freshwater fish…I eat salmon and eggs almost every day, so I should be fine with the vitamin D. About sunshine, does tanning lamp have the same effect on our vitamin D production as the real sun?Vitamin D is added to milk artificially.  What other mammal continues to drink milk after it has been weaned?  (Cats only drink it because we put it in front of them).  Why do you think we have so many problems with lactose intolerance in this country?  The dairy lobbyists have us by the you know whats!  Do you know of any other nation that sits down to some “milk and cookies”?  In the 1930’s children needed vitamin D so the dailry companies added it to the milk.  Milk is just pus and blood.  No need for it.  It causes celiac disease to name just one.  Sunshine is the best source of vitamin D.   Sorry – the truth hurts sometimes!No, it doesn’t create production of Vitamin D at all. Unfortunately.Actually in mogolian culture milk and dairy are very heavily used. So yes there are other cultures. But for the most part I do agree that we as americans consume entirely way to much milk and dairy. But cheese is so good! HahahahahaIve caught many catfish in the Atlantic!Vitamin D is not added to processed foods in China, and most of the food items listed here (and elsewhere) are not available in China. Your information is really only useful to people living in the developed world. Without more comprehensive and accurate information, it seems those of us in developing countries must take a vitamin D supplement.This says shiitakes have no vitamin D.Is it wrong?Hi Grant! Thank you for your question. Regular dried shiitake contain around 105 IU of Vitamin D per 15 gram serving. Here’s a couple of sites that may provide you with some insight on Vitamin D and Mushrooms. Hope this clears things up for you. Have a great day! ~Dr. GOkay I am allergic to a lot of things and that’s a huge issue.  I have been looking for an Organic Vit D supplement without soy or a whole lot of added iodine, and nothing natural added like “natural orange flavor”.   Plain cod liver oil may be okay if it is from the artic etc.  Would anyone know of such a company or product?How about lanolin, is that a legit source of D and is it D3 and can we absorb it?So there are lamps out there that claim to provide some D3, has anyone looked into that, does anyone know abot those?ThanksGreat list of Vitamin D Foods! I wish there were more vegetarian sources. But, I do love me some shittake mushrooms, so maybe I’ll just make it a point to eat more of those.I also wish there were more vitamin d foods for vegetarians. I love shiitake mushrooms, but i would grow tired of them really quickly if I ate them everyday.  I guess more time in the sun is the way to go for me. Good list.Anna, check out Garden of Life/Vitamin Code; the Raw D3 supplement might be the way to go for you.This is a pretty good list of vitamin d foods. Thank you for compiling it, i’m going to try to add more of them to my diet.I agreeSolar D Gems by Carlson labs is cod liver oil gelcaps containing 2000 or 4000IU per gelcap. Also Natures Plus has a  Source of Life Gardeb D3  mushroom blend having 5000 IU per two capsulesNot if you consume RAW, ORGANIC, PASTURED dairy!
Vitamin D is NATURALLY present and also does Not contain puss and blood!!
Do some Un-biased research that does Not look at pasteurized, hormone-riddled, milk!thanks for sharing, i love vitamin Dlooks like Omega-3 supplements or Sunlight may be the best bet.  Sunlight is the free way to get Vitamin D3 unless of course you are paying for tanning then that can get expensive.Great post, thanks.  I suffer from pernicious Anemia, which needs a vitamin D boost to top up vitamin b12 problems.  Since I only get vi b12 injections a list of strong Vit D options is perfect!It is true, much of what is in our food stuff today contain many toxins, land or sea, and pharmaceutical drugs and our drinking water. Dr F R Klenner (1907 – 1984) cured almost every virus known to man with Vitamin C. Prevented prolonged agony and death from Poisons and toxins, including snake, Pus caterpillar, Black widow spider, drug overdose etc. etc, with vitamin C. One gram to 150 grams a day, oral, injections, and iv without ill effects.  The FDA rd’s are a sick joke leaving the door open to every ailment known to man. Dr. Klenner, Irwin Stone, Linus Pauling took 15 t0 20 grams every day for over 20 years. Research these people, I did and have never been healthier. Research has shown that Vitamin C and the immune system vitamins neutruelize and store poisons and toxins in the liver then dumped, when triggered by (would you believe) caffine. More research:  ‘sugar the sweetest poison of all’.If people don’t like the taste of codliver oil they can put the oil in a small container and top it up with milk and give a shake and then drink it.Hi Hjdez,I just wanted to know if you are a doctor of some sort.
My friend’s relative has first stage cancer and was wondering if you know of a cure or anyother means of prolonging her condition.
Forgive me if I offended you in any ways.
Thanks & B/RYungWhat you are said is bogus.  Having right dose of vitamins is a good prevention method.  But no one vitamin is a cure real decease. In fact, putting too much of one vitamin can block your body from absorbing other vitamines and put you at greater danger.THIS is not a replacement for any of the vitamins, but Herb Robert ( a member of the Geranium family is gaining a lot of cudos for being a “wonder herb”there is much anecdotal evidence that herb Robert has made many cancers (in particular breast cancer) disappear — it has also been connected with diabetes -in that it “repairs” the pancreas..Google Herb Robert — it might be what everyone needs??Milk never did our family any harm – it is a great source of calcium in growing bones –and never caused anyone I know be be revealed as ‘celiac ,… I wonder if its actually in the head??
I’ve certainly never seen pus and blood  in my milk, but here in Australia perhaps our pastures are so polluted>?>Does vitamin D improve your spelling ability?Supposedly most of the mercury in fish such as tuna is bound with selenium to form mercury selenide which renders it less toxic.  Oral selenium via supplementation can also bind with mercury in our body to render the mercury less toxic.  The fish don’t take supplements , but I suppose seawater is a source of selenium.Hello,  I have a very sensitive system and am very low in Vit D.  I have tried several different dosages in pill & gel form.  I have also tried children’s liquid form because my Dr. said I may be allergic to additives.  But I have very strange responses.  I get very emotional, my brain feels like it’s running, my hearing is almost bionic (haha) and my body and skin get very hot, like too much sun exposure but I haven’t been in the sun.  This brought me to this web site, to try and get Vit. D through foods instead of supplements.
Could these responses to Vit. D supplements mean I am allergic to Vit D?
Thank you for your advice, I appreciate it.Mary,Thank you for your post!  It is difficult to know if it is the Vitamin D or maybe one of the ingredients in the product you have used that may have caused this reaction, but it does sound like you are sensitive to something.  In order to regain the balance of the system, and regain control if the sensitivities, I would suggest a complete cleanse of the system.  In order to accomplish this balance I would suggest the following: Disease or poor health typically occurs when your body becomes so contaminated with toxic residue that your internal self-healing mechanism becomes suppressed. Every single day your body absorbs thousands of toxins from genetically modified foods, pesticides, meat, milk, soy, white flour, table salt, MSG (Monosodium Glutamate), microwaved foods,refined sugar, artificial sweeteners, air, water, caffeine, alcohol, electromagnetic radiation, heavy metals, harmful organisms, industrial chemicals, prescription drugs, vaccines, stress and more.Great or exceptional health comes from keeping the body clean and reducing your daily toxin intake. Everyone should perform a Colon, Liver and Gallbladder, Harmful Organism and Chemical and Heavy Metal cleansing at least 2x per year. I also recommend Green Living Strategies such as eating Organic Foods, cleaning your air and water, using non-toxic chemicals, organic gardening, exercising and reducing your stress levels. For a comprehensive guide on restoring or improving your health I suggest you read “The Green Body Cleanse”.My goal is to teach you how to improve your health by activating your own internal self-healing mechanism. The body is the best healing instrument in the world. Our bodies are designed to prevent or eliminate any disease! You see, the realSecret to Health cannot be patented or regulated … it can only be taught! I firmly believe the true definition of a doctor is”one who teaches” not “one who prescribes”.To reactivate your self-healing mechanism, you must begin cleansing and purifying your body from years of toxin buildup. You also must eliminate the root cause of these toxins from your daily life and keep your body’s natural elimination routes (sweating, urination, defecation, respiration and menses in women) open and working effectively. Below I list the cleansing steps which have worked the best for me over the years and in the order which they should be performed. Please note that any of these cleanses can be performed individually at any time.Dr. Groups Whole Body and “Green Living” Cleanse Steps:
Step 1: Fill out a Health Questionnaire to evaluate your current health status
Step 2: Perform the 7-Day Oxygen Colon Cleanse or the 6-Day Advanced Oxygen Colon Cleanse (recommended for best results)
Step 3: Perform your first Liver & Gallbladder Cleanse
Step 4: Rest for 5-10 days
Step 5: Perform your second Liver & Gallbladder Cleanse. During this time start on your Harmful Organism Cleanse.
Step 6: Fill out the Health Questionnaire again to evaluate your progress.
Step 7: Rest for 5-10 days
Step 8: During this rest period, test yourself for heavy metal toxicity using the Heavy Metal Test Kit
Step 9: Perform your third Liver and Gallbladder Cleanse
Step 10: Rest for 5-10 days and fill out the Health Questionnaire again
Step 11: Perform the Chemical & Heavy Metal Cleanse
Step 12: Continue on a maintenance dose of Oxy-Powder® 2-3x weekly to keep your intestines clean and prevent toxins from entering your body.
Step 13: Perform the “Green Living” Cleanse.
NOTE: Detoxifying the body is a big step in the right direction, but it must be coupled with an active effort to start avoiding or eliminating your exposure to heavy metals and toxic chemicals on a daily basis. My new book The Green Body Cleanse describes these toxins in detail and gives you easy methods for identifying and eliminating them from your diet, home and work environment so you can live a healthy, clean, and green life!If you find that you have any questions please feel free to call the Global Healing Center and a representative will be happy to assist you.Take care and be well!Are there no vegetables which contain vitamin d.how about pulses or any white meat,do we find it in any of those,thanks,hope to have your answer,CarmenCarmen,
Thank you for your post!  There are a number of vegetables that contain vitamin D in them, the following is a list of a few that may help you.Vegetables High in Vitamin D – Vitamin D in Vegetables per 100 g
Mushrooms, shiitake, dried – Vitamin D	1660 IU
Mushrooms, shiitake, cooked, with salt – Vitamin D	303 IU
Mushrooms, shiitake, cooked, without salt – Vitamin D	303 IU
Mushrooms, cooked, boiled, drained, with salt – Vitamin D	90 IU
Mushrooms, canned, drained solids – Vitamin D	90 IU
Mushrooms, cooked, boiled, drained, without salt – Vitamin D	90 IU
Mushrooms, raw – Vitamin D	76 IU
Spinach souffle – Vitamin D	25 IU
Potatoes, mashed, dehydrated, prepared from flakes without milk, whole milk and butter added – Vitamin D	12 IU
Corn pudding, home prepared – Vitamin D	11 IU
Potatoes, mashed, dehydrated, prepared from granules with milk, water and margarine added – Vitamin D	9 IU
Potatoes, mashed, home-prepared, whole milk and butter added – Vitamin D	8 IU
Potato pancakes – Vitamin D	8 IU
Potatoes, mashed, home-prepared, whole milk and margarine added – Vitamin D	6 IU
Potatoes, mashed, home-prepared, whole milk added – Vitamin D	6 IUThank you again for your comment, take care and be well!Where is the cleansing done??Esha,
Thank you for your post!  I must apologize, the information I posted on the previous response didn’t have a page link, you can find the instructions for this on our website or you can click: i am pure vegetarian can u tell me what should i eat ????????Fish, liver and eggs are the best way to get enough vitamin D. Depends how badly you want the health benefits.Hi! I was told by the neurologist just yesterday that i have a
trigeminal neuralgia and now the doctor will be giving me 5 injections whcih is vitamin D to avoid it from getting worst. Please advice the best meal that has vitamin D. Thank you so much and i look forward in hearing your kind response.Karla,
Thank you for your email!  We actually have an article currently posted called  “10 Foods High in Vitamin D” and I think this may help you. I may also suggest considering , a live source of natural vitamin D3 that will provide you with your daily recommended amount of vitamin D. It is free of binders, fillers and other toxic “tagalong” substances.If you find that you have any questions please feel free to contact the  and we will be more than happy to help you.Thank you again for your post, take care and be well! 2 years ago my Vitamin D levels were normal – prior to the test I was working in an office constantly, hardly went out during the day and didn’t get much sunlight.  Then I resigned and for the last 2 years have been outdoors constantly! so i was shocked when a recent blood test showed that I’m close to a Vitamin D deficiency even though I’ve been getting more sunshine that ever before – I’m really confused now 🙁Mary,
Thank you for your post.  Many people think of vitamin D as the nutrient they absorb from the sun. The sun rays themselves don’t actually contain any vitamin D; instead, skin that is penetrated by specific ultraviolet rays works to synthesize this energy into vitamin D, starting a process involving the liver and kidneys to create the essential hormone calcitriol.Location, season and physical blocks can prevent UVB absorption. Regions north of latitude 40, running horizontally from northern California to New York City do not receive sufficient sun rays from September through May. In addition, anything physically blocking the sun’s rays impedes vitamin D synthesis, such as clothing, sunscreen with a sun protection factor higher than 15, coatings on windows and clouds in the sky. People with darker skin also require more sunlight, as their higher amount of melanin reduces their UVB exposure.Keeping these concerns in mind you may find that you’re able to better absorb  through supplementation, if anything giving this a try to be assure that you can get the D that your body needs may be beneficial.  Once you have given this process some time I would suggest testing your levels again to see what the results would be.I thank you for your post, take care and be well! In the Middle East the vegetable have names different from those in USA, where I am from. I would like a list of veggies names that you recommend and can buy in the Middle East. What foods are known to reduce blood sugar- diabetes – and high blood pressure?
Great web site!! :O)i am suffering from muscle pain , so pls tell me which vitamin is good for muscle pain,and now iam doing exerciseInteresting how those who eat only plant products are veggie eaters while those who eat plant and animal products are called meat eaters.  Wouldn’t Omnivore (or similar term) be more appropriate?Otherwise, very good post, exactly what I was looking for. Thanks.There is both fresh water and salt water catfish.  I personally have caught some in streams in MD and in bays in FL (USA).  The salt water ones don’t taste so good though. :/There have been many studies on the benefits of raw vs. cooked foods.  I personally don’t know of any that talks about fish, but it’s probably out there also.  But if the same general rule applies, then different nutrients will be activated/deactivated with application of heat.  So my personal rule is to eat mix of cooked and uncooked foods of all types.  Also, your body needs certain fats to function. 🙂I think that is in reference to those who are expecting.  But I could be wrong. Thought  to mention golden barrel blackstrap molasses which is high in iron for those who avoid red meat.Also check out wh foods list on blackstrap molasses web page.It is a great resource for all to eat heathy.Thnk you for insight.Dont be iron defiecient for shure.Brianthen you can just have silk soy milk c: it also has vitamin d!thank because im finish to my ass.Annie is a pinheadchildren should especially have alot of vitamin d. it supports their physical growth and increses their chances of reaching or exceeding their potential height. A severe deficiency of this vitamin caused me to grow and cease to grow to the height of an average 10-11 year old, which is dpressing as i am 17 and turning 18 in less than two months.do you like molasses? Take a table spoon daily. the magnesium and potassium will feed your muscles.Sorry, I forgot to add, I take it for leg cramps, and it always helps me.Muscle pain often related to lack of Vitamin D.Vitamin D sufficient will cure both Diabetes and High Blood Pressure. In Middle East you got lots of sun, however, you may have stayed in door or due to the clothes to block the sunlight. Basically, only UVB 290 nm to 315 nm of sunlight can generate Vitamin D thru your skin choleterol, and only around noon time, say, 10am to 3pm. Also, winter time, north to 32N may NOT have any UVB at all during winter, so sun gives you none Vitamin D. If you take 5,000 iu of Vitamin D a day, your problem will be gone. For short term treatment, you eat cinnamon will increase your cell sugar metabolize 20 times to reduce your blood sugar. And you eat banana, cantaloupe or kiwi and those with rich potassium will lower your high blood pressure.Also keep in mind, that blood pressure is NOT stay the same thru out the day, it often goes lowest in 5am then start climbing up to reach highest of the day around 9:30am and then going down to reach lowest at 2pm and low to 5pm moving up again till sleep. So, if your doctor appointment on physical check up around 9:30pm, you will be much likely to be diagnostic high blood pressure. Also, the baseline is NOT the same through out the year, May to September the lowest and stay low till winter time with Jan and Feb the highest.In general, you are correct. However, in the US, milk is added Vitamin D, one serving gives you 25% DV, and together with cereal you got total 40% DV per serving. Ice Cream therefore got 20% DV so is other dairy products made out of milk. In high latitude area, over 32N, winter sunlight has no UVB, so people go intake much less Vitamin D, blood circulation form of Vitamin D has only about 1/3 of that in summer. So, say, in New York City and Boston around 42N, Nov, Dec, Jan and Feb has no sun vitamin d, milk and dairy product may be on source of vitamin d.You are correct. However, in our area, soy milk does not have vitamin d. Soy Milk is good for old man who has frequent peep at nights. Drink a cup of soy milk BEFORE sleep, any old may will NOT have to wake up to peep till next morning.Winter time your Vitamin D level often has 1/3 remained, so when did you take blood test is important. It is a fact that over 60% of people Vitamin D Insufficient during winter, and that’s another reason why people catch cold in winter.Also that, even in summer, only a few hours around noon time has UVB, if you not working but get sunlight in early morning, say, before 11am or after 3pm, you may not get UVB, note the 11am in summer is in fact 10am due to day light saving time.People working, while stay in office, often go out for lunch in sunny summer days, and take some walk during the most UVB time, that just 15 minutes got sufficient vitamin D.I disagree as you can buy now diifferent types of milkI’m just wondering what tree that a mackerel, salmon, catfish, tuna, herring, sardines and eggs grow on?? These are not vegetarian by any means of the word. All these wanna be vegetarians that eat everything but vegetables and claim they know what is good for you must be questioned….
 You are not a vegetarian if you eat fish, poultry, dairy or any of its byproducts….that is hypocrisy. Call a spade a spade, and an animal eater a animal eater and not a vegetarian. They just think they are so they can tell people they are but have no commitment or conviction to find out how the body really functions when living on a true vegetarian diet. God put us in the Garden of Eden for a reason, and not to eat His creatures for the pleasure of the stomach, but instead He gave them to us for the pleasure of our eye…..you suggest eating ranched salmon raised “sustainably”…
–May I suggest there is no such thing & that ranched salmon are a huge environmental problem, in addition to being a nutritional hoax—if you truly are in the “business” of nutrition consultation…you should improve your data base on this issue….
rand dawson  OregonJacko is an intellectual midget who can’t get a point across without resorting to an insult. And it’s definitely true that anonymity turns cowards into tough guys.Flag as inappropriate
i am suffering from loss smell . so pls tell me which vitamin is good  cureing  loss smellHi, For the past 6 months to a year I have been dealing with a vitamin D deficiency so my doctor put me on Vit D, After 3 to 4 days my tongue was swollen red and burning so I stopped taking the vit D and it cleared up I tried the liquid and same reaction so I stopped it and it cleared up so I decided to try a smaller dose and started taking a child’s gummy vitamin  I had swellen in my tongue could I be allergic to vitamin D?  My vitamin level is a 7 and I am so tired and depressed I have to avoid a lot of sunlight because I am on blood thinners for PE’s. I am 40 years old with a 10 year old daughter and I am exhausted.. Please give me some ideas.. Thanks so much!!!Thought to mention golden barrel black-strap molasses which is high in iron for those who avoid red meat. Also check out wh foods list on blackstrap molasses web page.It is a great resource for all to eat healthy. Think you for insight. Dont be iron deficient for shure. BrianTrue. Absolutely true about the usual milk in the US.
I – however – just bought
Organic,
Raw
Pasture fed (green grass, not grain that sickens cows)
milk from the Farmer’s Market. And it is awesome.
I also culture it. This multiplies beneficial enzymes 🙂 and predigests at least half of the casein and lactose.In a northern climate this stuff is wonderful and needed.Also are you black, Mexican, white or Asian?
Big difference.By the way, G-d tossed us out of the Garden of Eden not for eating his creatures, but because we ate fruit from the Tree of Knowledge!
Furthermore, G-d actually commands us to eat animals when He gave the laws of animal sacrifices, and the laws of pure animals that we should eat, and impure animals that we should not eat. The concept of “for eyes only” is written no where in the Bible. Rather, when we read the Bible, we see that G-d gives us His Blessing to eat the (free range, organic, grass fed) animals that He created.I ALSO TAKE VITAMIN D-3 1000 IU, EACH DAY!CHINESE SOY MILK IS ALSO GOOD!leaks are high in d!sorry no i misread!!!  but adding butter helps d up your veggies!Thanks alot and plus my boobs went from a size A to a size D OMG now my crush and me are going out 😀says who? do u know how dirty a pig is which most people eat 3 times a day? haha why do you think most people who eat meat are so unhealthy and over weightyou just made me stop drinking milk starting today after just pouring some into my coffee. yuk pus and blood yuk!!!i hear that pigs are one of the most dirtiest animals to eat. i guess its because they eat anything.Mushrooms are a fungi not a vegetable. The vegetables listed above contain so little vitamin D, you would need to eat a whole bag of potatoes to get the RDA. Sunlight, certain meats, and fungi is the only prevalent source of vitamin DYour body naturally stores vitamin D in the summer for later use in the winter. We are amazing creatures!I also stopped using milk and now am making my own homemade almond milk which is delightful and one can barely taste the difference between it and the real milk.Eeeeew soy anything is sickening!!!And jack is a moron who thinks he knows everything when in reality he is a worm!!!OMG I hate mushrooms, those slimey things!!I really think it is lack of sun shine. Sun block watching tv etc.. No sun because of cemtrails. I am quite dark skinned and will need more sunlightI forgot epsom salt’s baths ( good salts)picky, not nice!!!do you have any sugestions?what sunshine? the sky is never clear these days!! on a good day there is still a hazeMenopause took all my D vitamin.  At once.Vitamin B12 cures pernicious anemia. Vitamin C cures scurvy.As we get older, our skin is less able to make vitamin D from sunshine; I don’t know if you are old. Also hypothyroidism is associated with low vitamin D. It is important for women to have their thyroid levels checked, not just the TSH  but T3 and T4.I found this item very helpful thankuMy husband is type II diabetic…so I guess if he takes 5000 Vitamin D3 he will be curred?  He also in going into the state of high blood pressure.  His doctor put him on Metforim, Simivastan and Licinopril.Why do you refer to the “Native Inuit people in Alaska” in the past tense, as if they were extinct or had stopped eating fish?I am vegetarian for over 30 years and mostly vegan now….am very fit and great health but do have a vit D deficiency so all this info helps! Thanks so much! what heppen apny kaam sy kaaam kar chal dafa hoo0oo0oCan you look into Human Growth Hormone therapy right away?  There are ways to make your body grow.  You need a specialist who deals with this.I take 2 Fish pills every morning, with my breakfast. After 5 + years taking this, the pain in my knees (from falls in my youth) has depleted about 95%. Now, I await it to stop the pain in my shoulder, from a horrid fall, down wet stairs at work in my 20’s.It’s about chosen style, and appropriation to an audience. Using ‘omnivore’ and ‘carnivore’ would be fine; however, this is a casual article for a casual audience. An editor should realize that more people will easily identify with “veggie-eater” than with ‘omnivore’ (unnecessary to capitalize within sentence). Were a simiilar article written for a more cerebral or academically/ scientifically geared publication, then an editor likely would opt for the more scientific terms.I am vagetarian  which foods  contains  vitamin  DSunlight, or a vitamin D supplement, are probably going to be your best bet!I know this is slightly out of context, its in re: to Vitamin D supplementation. I am really curious to read any different views people may have. I read on The People’s Chemist, that Vit D supplementation is totally unnecessary and even harmful, if a true deficiency isn’t present. It stated that the normal range guidelines were decided upon with Rickets in mind, and that some of the healthiest people who are in the sun constantly do not reach the ranges that we are being told is healthy. “Healthy Hawaiian Sunbathers” It then went on to say that large doses of synthetic Vitamin D are used in rat and mouse poisons then the argument of dosage came up, but why put anything that’s an ingredient for any poison in our body on a daily basis? It also went on to say, because its fat soluble like A, D & K it leaves us at great risk for D toxicity and hypercalcemia. That’s one, the next is Folic Acid, we don’t need it period, he believes its a carcinogen. But states we do need folate, he uses brewers yeast, I believe, not sure about that. Going on to say Multivitamins and especially prenatal multivitamins are very harmful. I’m only sharing what I read, so different views can be shared. However, My children take Vitamin D, I have had them on vitamins since they were babies. I do as well, and I take L-methyfolte for other reasons, if its true should we all be taking the methylated form regardless of our status? Lastly, it came down to, no need to supplement anything unless we are deficient or have a specific health issue.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()The haze is chemtrails. Watch the sky-they spray back and forth in lines and it spreads out. It is aluminum, barium, strontium, and other junk. Kristen Meghan worked for the gov and told about chemicals she had to approve with no jobs attached. She was threatened when she asked questions. Chemtrails were mentioned in House bill 2977 before it was revised. Ted Gunderson also spoke out against them. Clear blobs fell 6 times over a 3 week period in Oakville, Washington. People were sick that came in contact with it and some pets died. The blobs contained bacteria and human white blood cells. The samples later disappeared. Prior to the blobs falling people noticed slow moving military aircraft in the skies above their town. Green goo also fell on homes in Snyder, NY.I notice, Dr. Group, that you are a vegan, so you use the vitamin D3 serum.  I am also trying to be a vegan (I’ve been a vegetarian for 35 years) but the serum comes from the lanolin of sheep.  This does not seem to be vegan to me.  Is there another plant source, other than shitake mushrooms, that is a good way to get vitamin d?  Thank youHey Juli, Yeah, you are correct. I’ve been working on a truly vegan friendly D3 formula to fill this need. It’s called Suntrex D3 and we should have it available later on this month. Stay tuned (or sign up for our newsletter for the announcement of its release, sign up box is at the top right of this page).Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Maybe excepting Christ into your life would help more than anything. Pingback: ()Pingback: ()How would accepting something that doesnt exist help anything?  Don’t be brain washedPingback: ()my mom takes celecoxib 100gm as an ongoing prescription drug. today I bought Sandoz calcium forte 500gm and gave her to tablets as a result of severe joint pains last night (and) counteract for tonight. advise of the dangers/advantagesInstead of stressing out about what has this and what has that…just take a supplement and call it a day.  They have vegan capsules for all you veggie lovers so don’t worry about that.  BUT…be sure you are in fact deficient!  Have a blood test to confirm.  Too much vitamin D can be just as bad as too little.  Good luck everyone!Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Ocean catfish??? tell me another one, Doc!Good onePingback: ()HOG-WASH Stay far away from any type of fish these days as they are genetically modified and are HIGH IN MERCURY! This is disapproved.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()