When it comes to detoxing your body, there are many techniques you can follow and supplements you can take. One plan, in particular, is to eat detoxifying foods. Here is a list of 10 detox foods that are a great addition to anyone’s diet.
Foods That Detox the BodyLength: 4 minutesFruit is high in liquid-content which helps the body wash out toxins. Fruit is also easy to digest and is high in , nutrients, fiber, and important .Fill your refrigerator with , barley, wheatgrass, kale, spinach, spirulina, alfalfa, chard, arugula, and other organic leafy greens to give your digestive tract a detoxifying boost of chlorophyll.Chlorophyll rids the body of harmful environmental toxins from , herbicides, cleaning products, and . They also aid the liver in detoxification.Citrus fruit aids the body by flushing out toxins and jump-starting the digestive tract with enzymatic processes. Lemon juice supports the liver and kidneys in their cleansing processes. To increase detoxification, start each morning with a warm glass of lemon water. out there. It stimulates the liver into producing detoxification enzymes that filter toxic residues from the digestive system. I recommend adding sliced or cooked garlic to a suitable dish, as it will help any detox diet.Extremely high in antioxidants, the ability for broccoli sprouts to stimulate detoxification enzymes at the cellular level is unparalleled. The sprouts are actually more effective than the fully-grown vegetable.Packed with antioxidants,  washes toxins from the system via its liquid content. It also contains a special type of antioxidant called catechins, which are known to increase liver function.The mighty mung bean has been used by Ayurvedic doctors for thousands of years. It is incredibly easy to digest and absorbs toxic residue from the intestinal walls.Whether juiced or eaten raw, onions, carrots, artichokes, asparagus, broccoli, cabbage, kale, brussels sprouts, cauliflower, garlic, beet, turmeric, and oregano provide a great foundation for a healthy diet. The combination of these foods will help your liver purge toxins during the cleansing process. They are also high in naturally occurring sulfur and glutathione—sulfur helps the liver detoxify harmful chemicals.Incorporate more easily digestible  and  into your diet. Flax seed, pumpkin seeds, almonds, walnuts, hemp seeds, sesame seeds, chia seeds, Siberian cedar nuts, and sunflower seeds are all excellent options. While detoxing, avoid nut butter with added sugar.Use hemp, avocado, olive, or flaxseed oil while detoxing to help lubricate the intestinal walls. This allows toxins to be absorbed by the oil and eliminated by the body.There is no way to completely avoid toxins. There are simply too many sources—contaminants in the food and water, junk food, stress, smog, secondhand smoke, vehicle emissions, airborne fungal spores, pesticides, pollution, etc. Maintaining a diet high in detox foods is one of the best ways to maintain overall health. However, with even the best diet, toxins creep in. I recommend performing a  at least twice a year. You can boost your cleansing efforts by following the . The first step to any full body detox is a thorough colon cleanse, and  can help with that. Oxy-powder is a safe, effective, all-natural colon cleaner that uses monoatomic oxygen and magnesium to gently cleanse and detoxify your entire digestive tract. What are your favorite detox foods? Do you have a recipe to share? Have you tried an effective cleansing routine? Leave a comment below; we’d love to hear your thoughts.
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.Good piece of info 🙂 Amazingly I like all of them. So no probs… but ahh… to really detox, i got to only take these right? No normal meals and stuff?I’ve also heard that prune juice is great for detoxing..is that true?The informative article is a best bet for reading and also easy to follow with easily available fruits ,vegetables and spices.It can do wonders to our body and boost our health and bring down  our medicals bills and tension associated with it.Please continue your good work for the betterment of humanity.Thank you.One that should be at the top of every list is aloe . Imean the whole leaf that you can now buy at most food stores. It really keeps the body from drying out inside.That slippery gel sinks into every cell ,and the water and suppleness it gives tothe skin, hair, joints, you name it  supplies too much to rember. google, aloe. Itransformed my skin and renewed my body with aloe,and the energy it gives is amazing. I make a smoothie with the leaf, fruit ,ice in a blender, there are many recipes  on line. i am
so happy to have found aloe .you will feel the supplness .it must be the whole leaf not the junky juice  sold in stores.look for fat leaves. videos on line will show you how to peel them.question, who does your newsletters? I like the format.
Thanks,
JoyceThe health benefits of green tea have been found and reported in numerous research. Green tea was found to lower the risk of cancer, infective intestine diseases and liver infections. Green tea helps lower cholesterol, assists with weight loss and strengthens cognitive abilities.Thank you for this great list.  That’s about what we (humans and pets at my home) eat!  …. and we all sure need it!  We just need to add more mung beans and green tea.“Dr. Josh Axe says:
August 12th, 2009 at 8:10 pmGreat list! I love how God has given us everything we need to stay healthy.”Why is it, Dr Axe, that God has decided NOT to share some of that health-giving sustenance with the 20 children that die from poverty every minute?blueberries? I thought they were an antitixant?Body detox helps you to detox your body and lose weight.apart of that we live in a world, which is ravaged by pollution a complete body detox is the best solution for us!Yeah, the detox diet makes me think of Lindsay Lohan and not wanting to eat. Remember when she was anorexic… That was disgusting. Maybe the media made her look worst, but she was skinny as a stick.“Why is it, Dr Axe, that God has decided NOT to share some of that health-giving sustenance with the 20 children that die from poverty every minute?”Actually, that has more to do with how we humans
distribute our food supply, and how we ravage the
earth, than it does with anything else. Me thinks those
numbers could be radically changed for the better,
in an enlightened world.if you are thirteen should you detox?walker, I am not a specialist or anything like that, but I am 14, and last year I detoxed with my mom and during the detox we both lost wieght and felt amazing. I would say that it is okay for you to detox, but then again I would probably get my parents permission, or at least let them know what I am doing.Eat some dack potato lackiesWhere can we read the answers to comments or questions above?
I am very excited to start on this today.
Thanks for posting the list.very helpful article.@mike yes prune juice is also great for detoxing.what about milk?Never would of thought that hemp seeds would detox the body..Nice work, I still can’t believe that fruits are the number 1 detoxifierHi! Thank you for your suggestions . I now have none functioning bladder two weeks ago found out i have prostrae cancer which is not milignate. did not like side effects the radiation treatment offered. foun a website offering natural cures with raw food. most if not all talked about araw food diet. If you have any dat to day receips i would love to see them.      tthanks !Hi Roger,I would recommend looking into the Gerson therapy or check out ~Dr. GEvery morning, I make a smoothie for daily health, energy, vitamins from Barbra Densis Miller variety of aloe vera leaf.  I grown my own and it multiplies pretty fast.  I take a bottom leaf off the plant, peel, wash away the yellow slime, freeze about 4 oz. in a ziplock, and then use in my recipe.Rebuilding cells is what this helps with and cleanses as well.
I consider it the only way I can keep up since I have no healthcare, no insurance, no savings/money to buy supplements…self-employment in the US… 🙂One cup OJ
One banana
4 oz. frozen aloe leaf
  blend all three in VitaMix or blender and drink
Above three ingredients mandatory, but all other fruits and veggies optional. Sometimes I add berries, kiwi, watermelon, etc.Hi, I would like to know if it would be alrite for my 10 year old son to detox.. I noticed some of the test questions asked applies to him.. He has bad breath and no matter how many times he brushes his teeth or gurgles mouthwash, it will be back to the normal bad breath after a few minutes or so.. He has a weight problem, and would have a bowel movement each time after a meal.hi,what about yogurt ?
goat’s milk yogurt.
health practitioners are telling us to avoid dairy products alltogether-but many traditional populations are thriving to over 100 years of age in very good health with goat’s yogurt (and goat’s cheeses too )as regular part of their dietalso what about eggs–particolarly the egg yoak !
allmost the only sorce of nessesary phosfolipids-for the brain ,cell membrans ,and the second stage off toxin detox by the liver.Good list…I am a huge proponent of milk thistle as of late and love it’s cleansing qualities.This is a very good resource! Cleansing or detox diets are in nowadays. These foods with greatly help especially people on detox diets.Green teas are a good source for detox but they are a slow process. You would have to drink this on a normal basis. It slowly removes the chemicals and toxins out of the systemI has taken me years, but I now actually eat all the foods on your list (with the exception of mung beans) and I fee much better for it. But as well as eating great food, it needs to be remembered that other things also play a big part in health. These include getting adequate sleep, regular exercise, having a good support network and doing fun things in your life with friends and family. Rememeber to take a holistic approach and not just pick one ot two things to do. Do them all and live life to the full.Green leafy vegetables can give great results if they are consumed fresh. By this I mean to say that if you have the green vegetables are kept in the refrigerator and then consumed later then they might lose all the vitamins, minerals and proteins contained in them. Lemon contains citric acid which is required by our body. In fact all the above mentioned stuff is the golden key to live a healthy life.Veggies smoothies or juicing is great for kids. I add avocado to my daughter’s smoothies filled with berries, water, flaxseed oil, and standard process sp complete. She loves them and has no idea they’re good for her. I also add an egg yolk. Make sure eggs are organic or from a local farm.I’ve been hearing more and more that watermelon is a wonderful way to detox the kidneys.Only if you”re not smoking them.It’s very important that people pick a detox program that is right for them. If you pick one that’s not suited to your personality then you’re more likely to give up or not enjoy it.I am 52 years old.My feet are swelling from the knees down.  Blood Tests for kidneys and liver showed nothing except that one enzyme in the liver test read a somewhat high.  My doctor says therefore both organs are fine and that the problem can be that of varicose vein. I have no such protruding veins however.I started a detox programme however, focusing on the liver particularly.Foods are my biggest issue, I have ulcers so the fruit juice and fruits gets me very acidic inside.I bought ORGANIC SPELT FLOUR TO make a bread and fried plaintain with ORGANIC COCONUT OIL.  However I read that spelt flour has gluten and should not be used in a detox programme.  Can you advise?  What about the fried plaintain. Thank you for your response.CherryAnnDo you exercise?Good Day to you,I have just started The Master Cleanse Diet. As this relies on just lemons, maple syrup, cayenne pepper and water over a ten day period, I am wondering if this is OK for the body. I feel I would like to incorporate veggies and fruits into this detox cleanse. What are you thoughts on the diet? Thanks charlotteI’ve been reading and watching things about detoxing and it really sounds like an amazing thing, especially when combined with juicing. Thanks for the great info.I love all the foods you say for detox, and they work wonders! Sometimes, I just don’t want all of those calories though, especially with the nuts and avocados, and who can eat just a “few” nuts!!  I also find that Triphala is a great way to detox as well, its all natural, and just 3 crushed up dried fruits.  I recently came across a great article on taking of ayurvedic supplements.
SusanFasting the Islamic way is a really good way to detox. I loose about 10 to 15 pounds every year during the month of Ramadan.  You can pretty much eat anything you like but basically you go all day without any food or water typically from Sunrise to Sunset. We usually break our fast following our prophets tradition with 2 or 3 dates a glass of water and a bowl of soup take a 5 to 10 minute break for prayers then eat a meal after wards.  This can be tough the first couple of days but basically it’s great way to detox just make sure you eat and hydrate early morning before your long day. Your body will be detoxing all day long doing this over 30 days should tip the scale to less toxicity in the body. Also if you don’t eat all day your stomach will shrink hence evening time little food will fill you up.I’ve juiced kale before, and it was nasty. it does not taste good by itself!I was wondering if it’s safe to detox whilst breast feeding? ThanksGood article, I have been looking in to detoxification a lot recently and have found that it is one of the most important processes to start with if looking to lose body fat or gain muscle mass. I have been helping people to achieve both of these things for years with a holistic approach to exercise. Eating clean is the MOST important thing you can do for your health.i want to lose body fats esp. belly fats when i saw your comments here i want you to also help me achieve that…. thanks as i await your replyI hear you about juicing kale, but cooked briefly in a hot pan with fresh garlic and evoo it’s delicious..Do you know if the Detox can help remove a medication (Levaquin) from my system. I have body pain and brain fog. Thank you.Wellington,Thank you for your question!  In order to effectively lose the weight we suggest a complete cleanse of the system in order to regain a natural balance of the body, this paired with a good diet and moderate exercise you should see promising results.  Great or exceptional health comes from keeping the body clean and reducing your daily toxin intake. Everyone should perform a Colon, Liver and Gallbladder, Harmful Organism and Chemical and Heavy Metal cleansing at least 2x per year. I also recommend Green Living Strategies such as eating Organic Foods, cleaning your air and water, using non-toxic chemicals, organic gardening, exercising and reducing your stress levels. For a comprehensive guide on restoring or improving your health I suggest you read “The Green Body Cleanse”.My goal is to teach you how to improve your health by activating your own internal self-healing mechanism. The body is the best healing instrument in the world. Our bodies are designed to prevent or eliminate any disease! You see, the real Secret to Health cannot be patented or regulated … it can only be taught! I firmly believe the true definition of a doctor is”one who teaches” not “one who prescribes”.To reactivate your self-healing mechanism, you must begin cleansing and purifying your body from years of toxin buildup. You also must eliminate the root cause of these toxins from your daily life and keep your body’s natural elimination routes (sweating, urination, defecation, respiration and menses in women) open and working effectively. Below I list the cleansing steps which have worked the best for me over the years and in the order which they should be performed. Please note that any of these cleanses can be performed individually at any time.Dr. Groups Whole Body and “Green Living” Cleanse Steps:
Step 1: Fill out a Health Questionnaire to evaluate your current health status
Step 2: Perform the 7-Day Oxygen Colon Cleanse or the 6-Day Advanced Oxygen Colon Cleanse (recommended for best results)
Step 3: Perform your first Liver & Gallbladder Cleanse
Step 4: Rest for 5-10 days
Step 5: Perform your second Liver & Gallbladder Cleanse. During this time start on your Harmful Organism Cleanse.
Step 6: Fill out the Health Questionnaire again to evaluate your progress.
Step 7: Rest for 5-10 days
Step 8: During this rest period, test yourself for heavy metal toxicity using the Heavy Metal Test Kit
Step 9: Perform your third Liver and Gallbladder Cleanse
Step 10: Rest for 5-10 days and fill out the Health Questionnaire again
Step 11: Perform the Chemical & Heavy Metal Cleanse
Step 12: Continue on a maintenance dose of Oxy-Powder® 2-3x weekly to keep your intestines clean and prevent toxins from entering your body.
Step 13: Perform the “Green Living” Cleanse.
NOTE: Detoxifying the body is a big step in the right direction, but it must be coupled with an active effort to start avoiding or eliminating your exposure to heavy metals and toxic chemicals on a daily basis. My new book The Green Body Cleanse describes these toxins in detail and gives you easy methods for identifying and eliminating them from your diet, home and work environment so you can live a healthy, clean, and green life!Take care and be well! Daniel Davis
Customer Service Directorwell lemon is very good for you but is not a citrus is alkaline , plus to recomend a de tox diet you have to know the person … where it lives . (hot or cold ) work . vicious . diet . and a thousend etc etc etc , please do not recomend any diets if you dont know or have a study about each personal body ..  there is a lot of bla bla about all this … and in the end few benefit ,,,  donovan chapman ,,, doctor on natural diets …I really appreciated the information here / quite an effort to collect and write so I pay attention!  I came upon your site from the recipe for ‘better than sex cupcakes’ my daughter was making.  Fascinating site, I will refer to it often and share.  Thank You for your Efforts here to keep us healthy and happy and best of all, Loved.  i’ve actually heard that brown rice does wonders… I have a feeling that Quinoa does a great job, too, if that’s the case… it is probably even better, but who knows!I have heard it’s not very safe! I heard that breast feeding mothers, children, those with infections or other issues like disease should not do this… but i’m sure there are ways you can naturally detox your body without ridding yourself of necessary nutrients… instead, maybe you could opt for making kombucha teas in the morning along with non-processed foods throughout your day, still making your calorie deficit of at least 1200!Dr. Chapman,
Thank you for your post!  I just want to clarify that lemon is considered a citrus which at the same time is alkalizing to the body, it seemed that there was some confusion with this fact.  I have to say I am not familiar with your work so I must apologize as I was unable to find any information about you.  However, I
havent suggested any specific diet in this article, and I can understand suggesting a diet that is more personal for each individual, this can be beneficial.  What I tend to find is that most people that we work with generally do not follow any specific diet at all, I suggest a more raw and organic diet to my clients as this tends to help both in the process of detoxification and provides many other positive aspects to over all health.  We have found wonderful results with most individuals when following this suggestion.  I hope that this better clarifies the standpoint we have at the Global Healing Center, however, if you find that you have any other questions please feel free to  and we will be more than happy to help you.   Thank you again for your post, take care and be well! Chris,
Thank you for your post!  In my experience a  of the system can help in eliminating toxic medications from the body.  If you find that you have any questions in regards to this process please  and we will be more than happy to help you.Thank you for your post, take care and be well! Anastasia,
Thank you for your post!  We do not suggest embarking into a full blown cleanse when breast feeding as many toxins in the body can be kicked up and relayed to the child through the breast milk.  It would ideally be the best choice to wait until weaning from breast feeding before considering a flush.  Like Caitlin has suggested, eating healthy foods are likely the best thing you can do for yourself and for baby, eating more raw and organic fruits and vegetables would be ideal in this regard. Thank you again for your post, take care and be well!  Many people got the result like improved energy, clearer skin, improved digestion after a detox diet. Thanks for sharing such a great information.The benefit of Omega3’s are also that they curb cravings. What is your take on celery?
– Ari Vinograd, I’ve found a great way to detox plus it’s GREAT for weight loss at the same time. It’s very simple, especially if you don’t always have fresh fruit or it goes bad as mine often does when I’m travelling and away from home. Check it out at  Sorry to counter you but the way Muslims fast during Ramzan is not the right way. You guys fast from dawn to dusk and stay up the whole night eating continuously, esp meat. This just puts additional pressure on the digestive system as opposed to a normal human being who eats 3 meals with sufficient time between each.Your fasting , though, is a good way to build up will power. im skinny 17 and you were apart of my journey,,, thank youI took the test and it said DANGER !  I had my gallbladder out in 1997 so is there something you can take only for the liver detox ?  I am starting to juice when I get more money.  I have the juicer and “Healing the Gerson Way” already . Thank you for your time. Just curious if any of this stuff has been tested as in SCIENCE or are all these methods simply someone’s BELIEF that it works?  I am open to anything that works but where is the DATA?I just don’t get the concept of fasting for a month… It’s out there, but you have to search for it, because the medical society doesn’t want you to know about it. They will lose business if people learn how to “cure” themselves! This is the way “doctors” used to treat people, but when drugs started being made, the medical society started speaking out against natural remedies and because they were wealthy they lobbied against it, and got certain laws passed for their own benefit. I read that doctors only get about 12 hours of nutritional training! They don’t even know how food affects the body. They only learn how to diagnose and prescribe drugs, and perform surgery. We need doctors for certain things, but they have gone too far in the practice of medicine. Medicine only offers temporary solutions. A proper diet offers more lasting solutions. I’ve seen quite a bit of success in other people who have used natural remedies, from acne to diabetes, to ADHD/ADD, to high cholesterol, to heart disease, to high blood pressure, and many others! It really does work! But, you can’t just try it here and there, it has to be a lifestyle. Medicines treat the symptoms quickly, but the problem remains. Diet treats the problem, but takes a few months for the body to heal. But, once you are healthy, and you continue to eat a proper diet, you are more likely to stay well.any naturally  occuring pigments are deoxidants.the red color of tomato or the yellow color of Circumin.your article is very informativeYes,  you’re right. The medical establishment is hiding information from us so they can profit.
Yeah,  the doctors in the US aren’t actually turning away patients because they have TOO many, so they want to create more sick people that they don’t have time to see and NOT bill for their services!
That’s also why you’re doctor tells you every time you visit to eat healthier , exercise more, and loose weight- so he can hide the “real” way to be healthy from you!  Dumb ass! I drink detox juices daily. I put two tablespoons of flaxseed in water for 8 hours, and then add the flaxseed (with the water) with the juice of half a lime, some cucumber, 1 teaspoon of honey, some water and a few slices of red beet into a blender, and drink it right after. My digestive system has been working great since I started drinking these juices daily.
One tip I have been following is to drink this on an empty stomach, and wait 30 minutes after drinking to consume any other food. The reason is that the flaxseed after been in water becomes a “live food”, and should not be mixed with cooked food.You both have relevant points but it seems that most patients want an immediate fix and so ask for meds. Eating healthy, researching and exercising is WAY too much work for the average person. Keyword: average.I’m curious, why would it be important to avoid nut butters while detoxing? I make my own nut butters, so there are no hydrogentated oils or additives, preservatives, sugars, etc. They also often contain the nuts and seeds that you are recommending.Anastasia,
Thank you for visiting the blog!  We do not suggest cleansing for expectant or nursing moms, the toxins that are kicked up in the process could relay to the baby in the womb or through breast milk.It may be best to wait until after breast feeding before considering a full blow cleanse.  It may also be wise to seek out the help of a reputable Naturopath in your area to help you. Thank you for your post, take care and be well! Actually, it is a good way. Research shows no problems arising as a result of them and they only eat after sunset, not during the night time. In fact, they are advised to sleep during the night time and wake up early to restore the body’s natural clock. The dates give the body an instant hit of much needed calories and sugar and the water gives it the much needed hydration.Doctors are just people who were educated in universities whose curriculum’s are highly influenced by their highest financial contributors, yes, we’re talking about the pharmaceutical companies. They are the ones that benefit from more sick people than a doctor could possibly see in a day. And some medical professionals are dishonest believe it or not! At age 21 in 1995 I had my first episode of eczema (dry itchy skin patches caused by an allergic reaction to some unknown, I was told back then). I went to a Beverly Hills dermatologist who gave me 2 types of cortisone prescriptions that would last me less than 6 months. For the next 10 years I went to him for an office visit every year. My eczema got worse over time. Finally one day I read 3 pages on eczema in a health book issues and solutions type that told me to avoid eating eczema trigger foods: wheat products, soy products, and dairy. That just seemed too simple. So I tried limiting the bread and gave up soy completely, but kept the dairy. My eczema cleared up in less than several weeks. Unbelievable! next time a went to dermatologist to get a little mole  from my arm I told him about eczema solution and he paused, looked like he was in trouble, he quickly regained composure and said “oh, yes, of course”. I said: you knew this and why didn’t you ever mentioned it in the last 10 years you’ve been treating me????? He said that it is common knowledge so he figured I knew it. Obviously, I didn’t since I kept coming back each year for stronger cortisone prescription and bigger rashes. I think he was being dishonest in order to get more kickback from pharmaceutical manufacturer of cortisone. But maybe I am wrong and he is a nice guy who just thought I already knew the simple answer to cure my eczema.Seek Jesus and HE will solve all of your problems. God Bless.I can help with the ulcers.  My father used to have bleeding ulcers in the 70’s and my mother was told to juice some cabbage in a blender for at lease 7 days.  It is the worst smell in the world but his ulcers disappeared never to return until this very day and as far as all your other problems, I have a feeling if you just add 15 drops of silica to the cabbage, it should help with everything else and then take silica everyday anyway with a fruit smoothie. Don’t worry, it has no taste.Is there any redness on your lower legs?  I was just diagnosed with cellulitis.  I have to take antibiotics and wear a compression stocking. I know this place is all natural, but since you can develop blood clots and cellulitis can make you ill, you really need to check it out for your health’s sake. I recently started juicing with the help of my daughter, and I found that juicing 6 carrots with 2 stalks of celery, an apple, and a 3 inch piece of raw ginger is not only delicious but it cleans out your system and it has helped in lessening the swelling, strange but true. My doctor also has me on 1000 IU of Vitamin D3 a day. I found the recipe in the little book that came with my juicer. If you don’t have one, it’s an excellent investment. There’s lots of info online, and recipes too. You don’t move on to green vegetables right away, and some juicers cannot handle them, but the carrots and fruits alone, I already feel a wonderful difference. Take some time for yourself and do some research online. That’s how I ended up finding this site! Then I ask my doctors about my findings and take it from there as I do have a Vitamin D deficiency.I know little about fasting as of yet, but I’m concerned and I do need to ask: NO water either?  Dehydration is as dangerous as it is uncomfortable. I can’t help but to question that part of it. I have done fasting (not much as I am disabled) but I do still make sure to stay hydrated. It’s such an important part of life regardless of diet.Yes and no..being disabled with extreme pain from Spinal Stenosis, a milder but painful form of MS and more, I take what they give me, I knew nothing. It’s only recently that my older daughter has been helping me with juicing and vitamins, etc. I do feel better and perhaps one day to do without the meds, but not all of us want an instant fix. With some illnesses already in our bodies knowing nothing about these things when we were younger, we don’t always know better, we just want the severe pain to STOP. I know about healthy eating, but that doesn’t always prevent illnesses that are hereditary. Like everything else, everyone has a story. Don’t be so quick to blame all as there is a difference between learning earlier and seeking all the info you can, and learning later in life and having the internet to learn as much as you can as far as what’s BEST for you.  Take care!Isn’t it wonderful to happen upon such an excellent website by accident?  That’s the same way I found this site!  I’ve sure bookmarked to come back OFTEN!  The little joys of the internet!  (How were the cupcakes by the way? Where’d you find the recipe?  thanks!)  Take care!What’s evoo?  I’d like to try that one I move to juicing the green vegetables and I love garlic. My daughter also juices kale all the time so I want to tell her about this as she hates the taste.  Thanks so much!Jesus does indeed help through prayer and more to “solve our problems”, but He doesn’t object to us doing what we can on our own to help along the process. That means eating right and making sure we have the nutrients needed to have a good, healthy life. Our Spiritual health is just as important so Bible reading and prayer should be at the top of any believer’s list, but Jesus also does want for us to take good care of this body we’re given that’s the temple for our soul. When one is ill, reading healing Scripture is great, but we also have to do whatever else we can to help it along.  We don’t say, “Okay Jesus, fix this, this and this” and it’s automatic. Besides a strong, childlike faith that keeps us at rest, mind and body, while waiting upon Him, we also do what we can to help ourselves while praising Him and giving Him all the Glory. I hope you understand that. Be blessed!I’m not Dr Axe, but there is a lot about God you are not understanding. There are some (not enough) people In Missions feeding hungry children, but they certainly cannot afford these things. God’s plan is for those who have to share with those without. If a person knowledgeable about this health information had money or large enough donations from the wealthy to apply it to these hungry children/world hunger, that would be the fulfillment of God’s plan to all to receive what they need. We don’t, however, live in such a world. What I am telling you is God’s plan for mankind, but those who have are not sharing with those who have not thus we have these problems. DON’T blame God. Read the Bible and you’ll see the very plan revealed to you. God doesn’t have a problem with people being rich – it’s their not sharing with the needy He has a problem with. Thus all the Scripture about how hard it is for a rich man to get into Heaven.I find it offensive for you to mention doing a fast the Islamic way!!! We don’t need to imitate nothing these terrorists countries do!!!Does any know what is safe to take while breast feeding ? Hi, also drink fresh aloe vera it does wonders…………….. though bittertry soaking your feet in warm water with coarse salt and drink warm water with a pinch of soda in 1/4 a cup.. just try it worked for me, also cut down on carbohydrates, red meat and fatwould a christian be offended if you said the christian way?  That’s what’s with this country.you just assumed staz was being offensive.Bro you know about fasting or are you just talkingPlease sister don’t taint Muslims we are all here trying to find medical expertise not calling names please leave and find yourself a place where you can spit out what you think besides just for your information all weapons are made by you people You seem a bit bitter. Is it that you are a doctor and you’re red hot with rage ‘cos you stand exposed.Jenjen (above) is free to air his views and so are you,  maintain civility is all.hi 🙂 it does sound hard to fast but once you get used to it, it gets easier, about the water, well we eat dates witch have all  the vitamins and minerals we need. one of them is POTASSIUM which is an essential nutrient used to maintain fluid and electrolyte balance in the body.’ V. H. W. Dowson, a recognised expert in this field, says that one grain of date and a glass of milk are enough to meet all of a person’s daily nutritional requirements.’i hope this helps 🙂hello,i am really hurt that you think that all muslims are terrorist, i am a Muslim and am against them. i know my comment wont change the way you view ‘us’ but i would like to clarify one thing, muslims are not perfect islam is’i really hope you read about our religion and no not from the news or anyone so you know that not all of us are terorists.peace 🙂Nice information, thank you for posting this, check liver detox rochester ny.The contents has provided meaningful information thanks for sharing info 	and is very much useful for me. Very well written I appreciate & must say good job…Do u have to bring up terrorist in to this convo this is bat fasting ik I’m late but had to be said God loves us allI’m with you on the mung beans!I wish I had seen this sooner, especially since I have had low potassium and I am soo sick of bananas!  You’d think a doctor would tell me this. I’ll be shopping for some tomorrow, and I thank you so much for the advice. MUCH appreciated!  Take care!Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()EVOO = Extra Virgin Olive OilPingback: ()Pingback: ()laughing out loudPingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()I agree.  Not having sufficient water can lead to dehydration and
passing out (this just happened to a relative of mine and we had to take
 her to the hospital to make sure she wasn’t having a heart attack).
Also, not drinking enough can lead to kidney stones (as I can attest to
myself–after a number of procedures to get rid of them, that was the
main diagnosis–not enough water)Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Ohh as can I!! One of my last trips to the ER for stomach pain which I thought was my appendix, not only was I diagnosed with kidney stones AND gallstones, but being the day after my mom passed away, I missed her funeral..never got over that either..So as you so rightly said, it was no picnic on both accounts!  Take good care of YOU!Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()What’s with the “you people” you just had to add?Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Really? You find it offensive????? People are wwwwaaaaaaaaayyyy too sensitive!! It’s an effin trick that Staz wanted to share. If you don’t like it, move the **** on!!!Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()