Berries have been shown to be some of the healthiest foods on the planet. It seems new research is constantly being published and berries are being recognized and analyzed for their health giving properties.Extremely high in , berries are among my favorite foods. In no specific order, these are berries that are extremely high health benefits:
Sometimes called Chinese Wolfberry or Mede Berry, traditional societies link this potent berry to sexual vitality, happiness, longevity, and overall physical strength. Grown in Tibet and Nepal,  have been scientifically linked to possessing the ability to fight negative health conditions and protect the liver from contaminates.Deep red in color, goji berries are composed of 18 essential amino acids, 21 trace minerals, vitamins B1, B2, B6, and E, linoleic acid, selenium, germanium, and more beta carotene than the common carrot.A study from the Chinese Journal of Oncology found that patients with cancer responded better to treatment when goji berries were added to their daily diet.The blueberry is an antioxidant powerhouse. That deep blue color is related to high amounts of phytonutrients called anthocyanidins . These phytonutrients aid in the process of neutralizing free radical damage in our cells.Overtime, the collagen matrix of our tissues and cells begins to deteriorate. Blueberries help to keep this from happening, with a high capacity for free-radical neutralization.A recent study from Tufts University analyzed over 50 common fruits and vegetables for hard scientific data on their antioxidant capabilities. Blueberries consistently ranked at the top of this list.Blueberries also help to reduce our chances of developing diseases related to redness of the cells. This includes a reduced risk for heart disease, cataracts, varicose veins, hemorrhoids, glaucoma, and peptic ulcers. The American Institute for Cancer Research states, “We now know that blueberries are one of the best sources of antioxidants, substances that can slow the aging process and reduce cell damage that can lead to cancer.”The  is a relatively new-found health treasure. Once only known in the forests of the Amazon rainforest, the acai berry was traditionally used as a powerfully healing, energy-boosting fruit.Similar to red wine, acai berries are dense in levels of anthocyanins, a substance associated with heart health and lowered levels of cholesterol.Due to their strong antioxidant contents, acai berries are also related to slowing the process of aging and preventing diseases related to cellular oxidative damage. One acai berry holds ten times the amount of antioxidant vitamins as grapes, and two times the amount of blueberries.Three times smaller than the blue berry, but similar in appearance and flavor, bilberries are extremely high in antioxidant anthocyanidins.Bilberries are known for helping diabetes, as anthocyanidins protect the lining of blood vessels from being degenerated through the process of toxic oxidation . Bilberries have also been linked to possessing components that aid in the ability to increase night vision, protect the eyes, and reduce the occurrence of poor vision, cataracts, and macular degeneration .Bilberries also hold components that increase the amount of blood flow to the circulatory vessels. This allows them to be useful in treating conditions related to circulatory problems such as varicose veins and hemorrhoids. Bilberries are best taken in a supplement or extract form.There are over 600 varieties of strawberries on the earth so you won’t have to look hard to find this deep-red health booster. Strawberries are high in antioxidant phytonutrients known as phenols. Phenols are responsible for protecting us from disease and promoting good health.Studies show that strawberries may also help protect the brain with a powerful antioxidant capacity. Strawberries reduce macular degeneration of the eyes, and are an excellent source of potassium, fiber, many B vitamins, vitamin C, vitamin K, manganese, iodine, folate, omega-3 fatty acids, magnesium and copper.One study from Cornell University demonstrated that strawberries stopped the proliferation of HepG(2) liver cancer cells . Another study showed that a substance found in the berry called isothiocyanate inhibited esophageal cancer.Blackberries are more than just powerful antioxidants. They are also extremely high in some of the highest forms of chronic disease and cancer-fighting compounds: vitamins C, E, and ellagic acid. They also hold high levels the soluble fiber known as pectin, a substance that studies link to lowered levels of cholesterol. Related to the rose, lab studies on these thorny-bushed berries at Ohio State University showed the ability to stop tumor formation in the oral cavity, as well as proliferation of colon cancer cells.Cherries are high in quercetin and ellagic acid. This antioxidant flavonoid has been shown to promote cell and tissue health.Cherries are also high in anthocyanins and bioflavonoids, substances related to reducing the joint and muscle discomfort. Cherries also contain melatonin, an important natural chemical related to healthy sleep rhythms and maintaining a youthful appearance.Most berries are fairly easy to grow and are fun to pick and eat first thing in the morning for breakfast. I recommend purchased berries be organically certified. Although not listed, raspberries are extremely high in ellagic acid and also have tremendous health benefits.What are your favorite berries?
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.My favourite berries are
Bilberry, more anthocyanidins than blueberry (blue inside). Lingonberry, contains lignans, resveratrol, proanthocyanidins. Cranberry, contains pro-anthosyanidins. Cloudberry, contains lots of vitamin C and E, fiber, ellagic acid. Crowberry, lots of anthocyanidins like bilberry. Sea buckthorn berry, lots of vitamin C and E, polyunsaturated fatty acids, fiber, flavonols. All these are wild berries, commonly grown and used especially in Nordic countriesRead all types of berries.but as i like “strawberries” most.Want to also say something that they are one of the most delicious,nutritious fruits,”ideally should be a part of everyone’s daily diet”.I use it in mine “salads” with lunch.-Kimpol
House WifeI have a blackberry bush growing in my backyard. It’s been there for a few seasons now and it produces fruit starting in the spring, all the way through the fall. It’s a great feeling to go outside and pick my own berries. Great article, I wish more people would talk about how healthy berries are, and lay it out nicely like this.I love berries, and this is a great list of different kinds of berries … thank you! I’ve never tried goji berries or bilberries, but I think i’ll have to look into trying them.Blackberries is one of my favorite and followed by strawberries. My cousin have a farm for strawberries and I always sneak around to get some.Great list of different kinds of berries! More than anything, I’m glad to see that Bilberry is getting some attention. Blueberries, blackberries, goji berries… they always make these lists of different types of berries , but most people forget all about the healthy bilberry.Hi,
Very interesting with the power of berries. In sweden I can go out in the forrest and pick loads of berries for free. Many people pick lingon and blue  berry and sell them. I love to eat them fresh straight from the forrest. This help me to keep me young.All the best,
UllaBerries for Heart Health!!In Feburary of 2008 a Finnish study was published in the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition which found that consumption of 150 grams daily (equaling approx. two servings) of various types of berries (bilberries, lingonberries, black currants and strawberries) over a period of eight weeks lead to a reduction of systolic blood pressure (the upper number on a blood pressure reading) by an average of 1.5 points and an increase in HDL (good cholesterol) by an average of 5.2 percent.Research is shown that Acai Berry is potent antioxidants. Antioxidants are very important, because they boost up our metabolism rate.  Great list of different kinds of berries, btw! This is a great list of different kinds of berries! Thank you for putting it together!Dried fruits are great, but to be sure you are getting everything from them you can, buy only berries that have been dried at 105F or lower temperatures.  Higher temps destroy the enzymes and other proteins in the berries and can inactivate other compounds.  Also, it is best to soak dried berries before eating both to reactivate the enzymes, etc. but also because their dried nature means that they are going to rob your body of moisture when eaten.  Otherwise, they are an excellent way to keep plenty of great berries at hand all year round.  Try buying from websites that cater to the “RAW” food consumer.  Those berries will definitely be dried at lower temperatures.Just one thing – cherries aren’t a berry.  They’re a fruit.Coffee berries!  Many people don’t realize that coffee comes from a berry, (the “bean” is the seed within the berry), that some studies have indicated that coffee is even higher in antioxidants than tea, or that coffee may provide, for many people, the source of their highest intake of antioxidants.Here in the pacific northwest huckleberries are prolific.  We can gather them on mountainsides for free.  They are very similar to a blueberry, but I have been told have even more disease fighting nutriens and antioxidants.  Regardless, we eat tons of them and our fingers and lips are often slightly purple throughout the summer.What about gooseberries? I have a gooseberry bush growing in my backyard, and have heard they are very high in antioxidants. Is this true?Best to avoid dingleberries, though.Thanks so much for this very important post about cherries. Being Vegan, I love to eat a lot of fruits and cherries are one of my favorite.
Love,
Black Dalia:)I read that the coffee bean does not contain any antioxidants, but that the powerful antioxidants are only within the berry itself, interesting.  The paper also indicated that the coffee berry is many times more powerful than other berries.  Where can I get some.  LOLThanks for this power-packed article!  I’m eating more goji berries (from GHC)!  Berry smoothies are great…with a little organic yogurt.
Thanks again for this great article.
-JosieWondering if any of the berries, like Acai come in juice form?
Is it best to eat or drink to get the same benefits? How much of a berry intake is beneficial? Just looking for answers!!If goji berries grow in Tibet and Nepal, importing them must create an enormous carbon footprint for any product made from them for US consumers. I’m guessing this is also true for acai berries.Would be great to see the average US “consumer” (a French word meaning “to destroy”) decide the way to go is to eat organically certified domestically grown and locally available berries. Might have to do without the goji and acai, but what a net benefit to the environment that sustains us all.I agree with everyone.
I love my fresh berries and I love that good fruit is in season now.I know goji is very healthy, i didn’t realized it is a berry. Besides of the healthy benefits of goji it also gives aromatic flavor to fish soup, rice dishes, noodles and many Chinese foods. During summer when berries are available, i used to prepare strawberry, blueberry and blackberry shake with yogurt. Its a perfect breakfast drink than a regular fruit juice.I love, love, love eating fresh blueberries. In fact, I have a couple of blueberry bushes growing in my backyard. I also like Goji, but it’s hard to find fresh goji berries around my area. Great post!When you say blueberries,make sure you buy the Wild Bluberries.There are wild and tame blueberries,but the wild blueberries are heads above the tame blueberries in antioxidants and flavorBlackberries have always been a favorite of mine! What about pomegranate? It’s not a berry, but it’s still pretty tasty 🙂where does a person find these terrific berries such as bilberry, acai berry, and goji berries?Blackberries, strawberries, and raspberries are my favorites, plus the tomato, which is classified as a berry botanically.Great list of berries! These are all healthy and delicious. The only thing about Goji and Acai, is that they’re grown soooooo far away from the United States, so I would say that they aren’t worth it. Either way, these are all healthy berries!My favorite are Raspberries.Goji berries are delicious.. but I can’t ever find a local source for fresh goji berries. I get that they are grown overseas, but I can’t justify the higher prices for them, when I can get plenty more blueberries for the same price.so, i guess eating the berries with greek yogart must not be healthy or correctly eaten?where can i obtain some bilberries and gogi berries from?
cbhow do you know all about berries
did you astudy
i want 2 find out more
i am 20 years old
i have a project all about berries!
help me pls
😎   😎     😎    😎a friend of mine told me that Goji berries can be found in China and Taiwan… when she traveled in China she bought home Goji berries, tried to plant them but failed…I just planted some myself last summer. Apparently they will grow just fine anywhere in the states, but it will take about three years to produce though 🙁
I just saved some seed from some berries I bought at the health food store and threw them in a flowerpot. You’ve got nothing to lose really, just try it! 😉Honestly, I can’t pick a favorite – of the 5 I am familiar with, I love them all! I still need to try Goji & Acia Berries.I agree with what you say, but you don’t have to wait three hours. Fruit should always be eaten by itself on an empty stomach, but most fruits digest very quickly, in about 20 minutes, then it’s OK to eat something else. Bananas are the exception, they take about 45 minutes to digest.It’s not recommended. When I used to eat fruit with yoghurt I used to get a lot of indigestion. If you read a book about food combining it explains that the stomach needs different conditions to digest proteins and carbohydrates. If you eat fruit with anything else, it slows down the digestion of the fruit so it can start to ferment inside your stomach, you get gass and bloating, and don’t get the full benefit – in fact because you don’t digest it properly it can leave toxic by-products.lmfaoFruit must be eaten alone specially melons. When fruits is eaten with other foods or drinks, it will delays the digestion of fruits then it ferments – prduces alcohol, virus, molds, fungus and bacteria =toxinsAnother berry to consider is the aroniaberry/chokeberry.  It has the highest level of antioxidants than the berries listed above.  The Acai data was completed on a powder form of the berry.  Aroniaberries wins when it comes to the best berry!Great article!  Didn’t really know any of this info.  Still to try Goji, Acai and bilberries.  Hope I can find some.  I will start including berries in my daily diet 🙂You failed to mention aronia berries which are the highest antioxidant fruit in the world, according to USDA ORAC studies.Is it ok to eat 3 or 4 kinds of berries as a snackwhere can we obtain these berries? i live in Madras – South India. Can I use frozen berries? Is it the same?The article does make a reference to huckleberries if you go back and read under bilberries.  At the very end, it says Other Names for Bilberries: Huckleberry, Wineberry, Dyeberry.Dear alex,
My point of view you can take frozen berries but my recommendation is please take product of berries.I have one product that call optiberry , its design as capsule size. easy to take from any place ,and it made from 6 type of berries. Normally we are glad to take one or two type of berries one time, But if to take optiberries product you can enjoy 7 type of berries . if you interest you can contact me, You can take this as your supplementary food for you and you also can earn some money if you take it as business .regardsArul
from MalaysiaI have read somewhere that a study says “Consumption of 150 grams daily (equaling approx. two servings) of various types of berries (bilberries, lingonberries, black currants and strawberries) over a period of eight weeks lead to a reduction of systolic blood pressure (the upper number on a blood pressure reading) by an average of 1.5 points and an increase in HDL (good cholesterol) by an average of 5.2 percent.”Where did you learn this rubbish? If that happens with you your digestion must be very poor. Stomach acid doesn’t have trouble breaking down fruit.I eat a mixture of frozen berries everyday with greek yogurt. Frozen berries are often times superior to fresh you purchase in a grocery because they are flash frozen at the time of harvest so they retain more nutrients. They also don’t lose their nutrition value as quickly as the ones you keep in your fridge.You can buy dried goji berries and use in recipes or as part of a granola mix. They are hard to eat plain without being sweetened – not as tart as cranberries but close.Combining foods does not affect its nutrition value. Everyone’s digestive tolerances are different but I eat greek yogurt everyday with a wide mix of berries and other fruit like mango and pineapple. I add 1-2 tbs of ground flax seed and chia seeds – sometimes I add a little high protein granola. It’s delicious and very nutritious.Really?? Says who? This is a bunch of BS somebody made up to sell bogus “nutrition” books.Costco sells dried goji berriesNo…. Just no…. Noooooooo….. Don’t even tryYou mean arul?Aroniaberries are a great berry to add to your list.Well that is no doubt good diet to have. I only like blue berries blackberries and acai berries 🙂I am
Mr. Alex Yong from Ningxia Fuwo Gojiberry Factory. We are a professional
wolfberry development and processing company supplying you with dried
wolfberry, concentrate Goji juice, Goji powder, organic dried wolfberry and
others related products and services. We have 13 hectare goji organic
cultivation base in Zhongwei city of Ningxia Province. We own the Goji fresh
fruit process capability of  1000 metric Ton
every year. Our production have got the certifications of ISO, HACCP,
NOP&EEC ORGANIC. If you
are interesting in any of our products, please feel free to contact me:+86
18802297850Thank you for your attention.Best RegardsYours sincerelyAlexThis is a highly impractical suggestion (to eat all these everyday!) because you can count the number of people who can farm these in their backyard. Otherwise finePingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Anyone know how much of each berry are you suppose to consume in a day? Pingback: ()Pingback: ()how many berries should be eaten in a dayI like all berries they are good for you.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()eat goji berries in moderation.  Bought a bag in Honolulu, and ate them on the way back to the ala wai, and almost didn’t make it, as the berries acted as an extreme radical laxative purge that lasted a couple daysPingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()“..Berries You Should Eat Everyday”.
“Everyday” is an adjective.  It means “ordinary”.  Otherwise it is two words.  They are even pronounced differently, as in “We see this everyday error almost every day”.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Where are cranberreis and raspberries, dont like the list at allPingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Goji berries are a night shade plant and areextremely high in lectins – powerful allergens. You should not be eating them.Goji berries are NOT healthy. They are a night shade plant and are extremely high in lectins – powerful allergens. You should not be eating them.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Apparently Goji berry’s health-claims are FALSE. They are part of the nightshade family (like tomatoes) that contain Lectins. [ “Some lectins may be powerful toxins as for instance ricin, and others have been incorporated into genetically engineered crops to transfer traits, such as resistance to pests and resistance to herbicides.”] ~ Apparently, while they may relate to immune-system functioning, they also help viruses & bacteria bind with their “intended targets” & prevent us from absorbing nutrients in carbs or proteins.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()All very well if you can afford organic because over here they cost a fortune except for strawberries, raspberries and blackberries which you can grow but then its a constant battle with slugs etc .  You can get them fresh,  dried and frozen but organic just too expensive. I am getting a bit tired of all these ideas of what you should eat, so wake up and live in the real world Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()What about Boysenberries ? Are they more healthy than Blackberries?Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()