The best foods for weight loss are natural and organic foods that are free from GMOs. GMOs are a very big problem for people because genetic modifications typically alter the nutritional benefits that various types of food offer. These modifications are usually made with the motive of increasing profits through enhanced food production and longevity. They are not made for the nutritional benefit of the human race. Genetic modification is practiced on both domesticated plant and animal species, so it is imperative that you invest in organic products that are free from this form of manipulation.In terms of actual organic food types, most of the best foods for weight loss are fruits and vegetables. Among these, the apple ranks as possibly the best. The apple contains a great deal of nutritional value and has the ability to boost metabolism. Citrus fruits such as lemons, oranges, and grapefruit also can boost metabolism. Some researchers attribute this to high levels of vitamin C that have the ability to help reduce insulin spikes. Leafy, green vegetables such as spinach, lettuce, and bok choy can also help lose weight.A recent study investigated the possibility that whole grains can help people lose weight . While no evidence was found that proved whole grains directly contribute to weight loss, the study did find that whole grains help the body better regulate appetite and efficiently absorb energy from nutrients. Refined grains, however, often lose their beneficial, bioactive attributes and should be avoided by persons actively seeking to lose weight.We tend to think of food as something solid we chew. From a nutritional perspective, however, this also includes liquids that nourish our systems. It goes without saying that  is the most important liquid we can consume because it is the foundational molecule for all cellular, carbon-based life forms. It also is a very powerful appetite suppressor and a key instrument in body detoxification. Something as simple as drinking a glass of water, and waiting for 10 minutes before you eat anything, may result in a tendency to eat smaller portions.Another excellent beverage that can help with losing weight is . Green tea is consumed for many health benefits and is something I recommend as a replacement for coffee. Additionally, studies have suggested that it may also be one of the best foods for weight loss . A certain compound in green tea, Epigallocatechin (EGCG), can help the body oxidize fat by as much as 33 percent. Other studies suggest that EGCG can also help increase metabolism, help with the excretion of dissolved fat, and possibly even inhibit the production of fat cells .
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.I just read Dr. William Davis’s book, “Wheat Belly” and I think grains in general should be scrutinized for potential weight gain. I have eliminated grains and dairy from my diet and I have lost over 30 pounds since May. The other benefits are dramatic reduction in arthritic inflammation, acid re-flux and improved skin complexion.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()