  Fasting is a great way to begin a new fitness or weight loss program.  Reducing or, really, eliminating food and beverages that contribute to weight gain will help to kick-start your efforts and has the added benefit of body detoxification and colon cleansing.  Some people fast by only eliminating solid food from their diet, while others prefer to eliminate both solid food and all beverages except water.  you choose really depends on your starting points and personal health considerations.    By immediately reducing your caloric intake, fasting will produce immediate, short-term effects. Fat that has already been stored in your body will be used for energy that would normally come from calories in consumed foods and beverages.  Using fat means losing fat.  Additionally, toxins contained within this fat will be eliminated through sweat, urine, and feces. Skin tone, oral health, and cardiovascular health are positively affected by fasting for weight loss. Short-term elimination of food intake also gives your body the necessary rest and recuperation needed to maintain optimal health.Fasting for Weight Loss - In-depth Interview with Dr. Goldhamer & Dr. GroupLength: 93 minutesThere are some disadvantages to fasting and things to be considered. When beginning a fast, many people cite general lethargy and headaches as common side effects. Also, a long term fast will cause your body and metabolism, to slow down as your body enters a “starvation mode” to protect itself. This can be counterproductive and a feeling of low energy and a weakened immune system via a loss of nutrients can result. Over a long period of time, this can prove detrimental to your health.The Center for Conservative Therapy in Penngrove, California found that water-only fasting produced favorable results (normalized blood pressure) for individuals with hypertension and was beneficial for starting a health-promoting diet and jump-starting lifestyle changes.  The Laboratory of Neurosciences in Baltimore noted multiple  and/or a caloric restricted diet in the form of enhanced cardiovascular function, improved brain function, blood pressure reduction, and an overall decrease in the risk factors that contribute to coronary artery disease. Typically, you can expect to lose up to two pounds per day during the first few days. However, you can also expect to have a constant feeling of hunger. This should dissipate about the third day of your fast. From then on, you can lose about a pound a day throughout your fast. During this time, water is your friend. A steady intake of water will help to alleviate some, but not all, hunger pangs, as well as “flush” your body and facilitate the removal of toxins.  Some people opt to drink water and organic, nutritious juices during their fast.  Organic fruit AND vegetable juice will supply the body with vital nutrients and make the journey a little easier.  Additionally, the immune system will be kept strong and the feelings of fatigue and lethargy will be somewhat less.  If you go this route, you should drink both vegetable and fruit juices and it’s best if you make the juice yourself from fresh, organic fruits and vegetables.  Stocking up on sugar-laden, frozen orange juice concentrate is not really what I’m suggesting.    After your fast, keep your body clean and adopt a diet of healthy,  naturally.  And, of course, incorporate daily exercise into your life to not only maintain a healthy weight, but to strengthen your body as well.  
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.I have tried the “Master Cleasner” six times in my life, and only completed all the way through once.  Any words of wisdom on if I should try it again, and if I do thoughts of how I can complete it again?  When I did complete it, I felt great after it.Just curious; why didn’t you complete it the other five times?Pingback: ()Is juice fasting contraindicated with liver disease or fatty liver?That could be a question with very individual results, may be best to ask your personal healthcare advisor or doctor.I’ve been overweight for 10 years and tried so many things. Different things work for different people and I was lucky enough to find one that worked for me. I lost 20 pounds in one month without exercise and it’s been a life changer. I’m a little embarrased to post my before and after photos here but if anyone actually cares to hear what I’ve been doing then I’d be happy to help in any way. Just shoot me an email at  and I’ll show you my before and after photos, and tell you about how things are going for me with the stuff I’ve tried. I wish someone would have helped me out when I was struggling to find a solution so if I can help you then it would make my dayPingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()