Toxic substances like high fructose corn syrup, aspartame, and trans fats have polluted our food supply for over a century. But, at least the ingredient label will tell you when they’re present. This isn’t always the case. You need to be aware of acrylamide, a neurotoxin and carcinogen that can form when carbohydrates are fried. As a cooking byproduct, it’s not on the ingredients list. But, it’s there and it’s bad stuff. The negative health implications of consuming this chemical have even prompted the World Health Organization to issue warnings.  Here are the top 12 facts you need to know about acrylamide to protect your health.Although acrylamide is, largely, a byproduct of frying carbohydrates, and that’s how most people are exposed, it also has industrial uses. It’s used for the production of polymers, paper, plastics, caulking, food packaging, and adhesives. In food, acrylamide forms through what’s known as the Maillard reaction — a chemical reaction between sugars and amino acids.  and starches, such as potatoes, can form acrylamides when cooked at 248 degrees Fahrenheit or higher and fats are oxidized.  Although fried foods are the most likely culprit, baked and roasted foods also have the potential for forming acrylamides, especially if they’re heavy on the carbohydrates.Acrylamide is found in potato chips, French fries, and even coffee. French fries contain some of the highest levels of acrylamide and the common practice of extending the cooking time to achieve a crispier fry can produce 10x as much acrylamide.  Other sources include cereal-based snacks, rye bread, donuts, and biscuits. Casseroles with a lot of starch also have high levels of acrylamide.  Some cosmetic products contain acrylamide in the form of polyacrylamide, which breaks down into acrylamide after being absorbed into the skin.  High blood levels of acrylamide have been found in people who work in cosmetic factories. Research suggests that the entire US population suffers from some form of acrylamide exposure; it’s difficult to get away from. But, just as it always does, tobacco can make health problems even worse. Those who smoke tobacco consistently have the highest levels of acrylamide in their blood. Prompted by baby food contamination, a Polish study analyzed the effect of acrylamide exposure in infants aged 6-12 months. The infants with the highest levels of acrylamide in their blood had levels a few dozen times higher than normal.  One study of 110 American children found that acrylamide levels were 50% higher than adult subjects.  One of the most startling conclusions? French fry consumption was responsible for the most significant increases. Health and environmental authorities, including the EPA, warn that acrylamide is a  that can damage the nervous system.   A number of studies have also explored its carcinogenic effects and animal studies suggest that acrylamide can contribute to tumor development in the thyroid, testes, mammary glands, lungs, and brain. Lab studies have confirmed that acrylamide kills brain cells.  Bottom line? It’s toxic stuff.A survey taken between 2006-2010 revealed that acrylamide consumption correlated with smaller head circumferences and lower birth weights in recently born infants.  Another study of 50,651 women in the Norwegian Mother and Child Cohort Study confirmed a reduction of fetal growth following acrylamide exposure. Recent research confirms the relationship between acrylamide levels and insulin levels — not a good one either. Increased levels of acrylamide are associated with a decrease in serum insulin — this makes it very difficult to !  For people who already have trouble controlling their blood sugar, such as , the health implications can be disastrous.Trying to be healthy? Avoid acrylamide. Regular exposure has been linked to autoimmune diseases. One study found that individuals whose work regularly exposed them to acrylamide had an increased risk for developing lupus, scleroderma, and Sjögren’s syndrome. Since fried foods are the primary means most folks are exposed to acrylamide, avoiding fried and starchy foods, like French fries and donuts, can be one of the best steps toward reducing acrylamide intake. Instead, boil or steam your food to better avoid this dangerous chemical.  It may be a drastic change, but consider adopting a , the health benefits are incredible!Certain herbs and spices may provide a level of defense against acrylamide. , was tested for its impact on liver cells damaged by acrylamides. It reportedly reduced DNA damage by a significant factor, probably due to its antioxidant properties. ] While this study focused specifically on curcumin, other antioxidant-rich foods may provide similar protection. are best avoided for many reasons, not just acrylamide. In their own right, most are devoid of nutrition and little more than a food pellet with too much sugar and starch that lead to chronic disease.What hidden sources of acrylamide are you aware of? What steps have you taken to reduce your own exposure? Please leave a comment and share with us!
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()The biggest help I got in stopping eating fried foods and processed foods was the onset on leaky gut syndrome in June of 2011.  In a three day period I found I was “allergic to” about five new foods and I had never had a “food allergy” in my life.  Bad hives.  I asked my friend who is a health journalist what was going on and he told me to read up on leaky gut syndrome.  That is when I learned I needed to stay away from processed foods.  I was able to change my diet drastically because of the immediate negative reinforcement I got when I ate chemicals and preservatives.  I still have an autoimmune / inflammation problem but I feel much better after now no longer having sodas, processed foods, sugar, wheat, and transfats.  I sometimes have glueten free breaded chicken nuggets and bake them and they are crispy so I guess I get some acrylamides but much less and they are crispy and taste good.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()