        Dextrin is a natural fiber with a lot to offer. It can support your body’s ability to remove wastes. Fiber may also support satiation and . Dextrin also has the ability to lower the glycemic load of a high-carbohydrate meal. Because it’s a water-soluble carbohydrate, it can act as a natural binding agent and that’s what we use it for in our Detox Foot Pads. Without a natural binder, the ingredients would disperse and deprive you of the product’s benefits. Let’s take a closer look at dextrin…            Derived from dextrose (glucose), dextrin is a low-molecular-weight carbohydrate produced from the hydrolysis of starches. Hydrolysis, as the prefix suggests, involves water splitting into its basic molecular components and attaching to other molecules. While several types of dextrin exist, each have a similar formula and action in the body. Dextrin is used in many glue products due to its adhesive qualities and safety. The indigestible form of dextrin is often used as a fiber supplement. This is what’s contained in my .    Most any dietary fiber offers numerous health benefits, including weight loss and toxin cleansing. Dextrin has been linked to support for , blood sugar, and overall health. Here are 8 of the top benefits of dextrin.    Dextrin is considered a prebiotic, compounds that feed probiotics or “good” bacteria.  It has been shown to aid lactobacilli, a powerful beneficial bacteria responsible for supporting .  As the good bacteria continues to proliferate throughout the digestive system, a balanced ratio of good to bad bacteria is established.         Dietary fiber has been shown to reduce “bad” cholesterol (LDL) levels to support cardiovascular health.  As a dietary fiber, dextrin is no exception and has been shown to reduce triglyceride levels.  Triglycerides are fats in the blood that have the ability to increase heart disease and stroke risk. Although it may lower LDL levels, dextrin may help maintain HDL levels, or the “good” cholesterol.        In general, fiber provides bulk in the intestines and allows for the elimination of wastes out of the body via increased bowel movement frequency.  Fiber, including dextrin, needs to be consumed with plenty of water for effectiveness. Without hydration, fiber can’t move and can actually compound . Dietary fiber supplements often contain dextrin as one of the fiber sources because it’s so effective.    The cleansing effects of dextrin are tied to its ability to increase the frequency of bowel movements. Many toxins are stored in human wastes, yet a number of individuals have difficulty eliminating these wastes on a regular basis. Indigestible fiber also attaches itself to , like PCBs, and aids in their excretion.  Their ability to provide growth to beneficial bacteria in the digestive system also aids cleansing, as probiotics are an essential component of reducing toxic bacteria that contribute to common health conditions.Fiber has a long-standing reputation for supporting healthy blood sugar levels, both in healthy individuals and type II diabetics. Dextrin, along with all dietary fibers, may aid in  of a meal containing carbohydrates. These fibers must be taken before or during the meal to have a noticeable effect. Although fiber is a carbohydrate, it is not digested and does not raise blood sugar or insulin. Water-soluble fiber, like dextrin, displays the most beneficial effect on glucose levels.     The cholesterol- and triglyceride-lowering effects of dextrin make it an excellent dietary addition for supporting heart health.  The compound may provide support for the heart and blood vessels, an action that may lower the risk for heart disease. These are the main factors in which dextrin supports heart health, yet many researchers speculate whether or not fiber offers further benefits to the cardiovascular system. Future studies may provide more evidence in support of dextrin and the promotion of heart health.    Dextrin may help provide satiation, helping the body feel full and satisfied. In all its forms, fiber creates more bulk in the stomach and breaks down very slowly. This feeling of fullness can be very helpful for people who are wishing to lose weight. Individuals wishing to reduce their between meal snacking may want to incorporate more  in their diet. Promoting a natural feeling of satiation may be helpful for providing sustained, natural weight loss. Dextrin may help reduce the size of fat cells, possibly aiding in . More research is needed in relation to fiber and obesity to determine if the indigestible carbohydrate can indeed combat this growing issue.Research has shown that individuals who consume higher levels of water-soluble fiber have a decreased risk for colorectal cancer compared with those who consume a low-carbohydrate diet.  There are a few theories behind this benefit, none of which have been fully proven. One theory is that, because of its effectiveness for facilitating waste removal from the body, it may reduce an interior toxic environment that is conducive for cancer. Another theory refers to its ability to feed , which may play a role in protecting the colon. It could also be that people who eat a high-fiber diet are also eating a diet rich in plant foods, all of which contain varying levels of antioxidants that may support colon health.    As mentioned above, dextrin is used in our Detox Foot Pads because it binds the active ingredients together. Its ability to bind with toxins facilitates their expulsion from the body, making it an important addition to the product. In addition to the other ingredients, dextrin may support the body’s natural detoxification abilities and aid in supporting overall health.    What’s your experience with dextrin? Leave a comment below!      
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.you mean increase lactobacillus, not reduce ay?Dextrin, Maltodextrin, Dextrose and Maltodextrose have astonishingly high glycemic index. You are better off having sugar….Curious to know if anything in Dextrin can help reduce muscle cramps.  I know this probably sounds crazy but I have had cramping in all areas of my torso for a few years now brought on by the simplest movements…even taking in a deep breath while stretching upon waking up in the morning.  Drank tons of water, relied on muscle relaxers, took magnesium and nothing stopped the cramps.  Mid-February, my doctor recommended Dextrin for a stomach issue I was having and just last week I had run out of the Dextrin and bam!  the muscle cramps returned.  After the realization I had not had them since I had started taking the Dextrin, it made me wonder, is the Dextrin helping control the cramping?   Coincidence?  Maybe…that’s why I am so curious.Apparently not so with dextrin. It actually lowers the blood sugar levels. “soluble fibers such as wheat dextrin, can stimulate pancreatic insulin release and may interfere with glycogen breakdown. As a result, blood sugar levels may decrease. Dextrin has been shown to reduce post prandial blood sugars in healthy subjects and reduce fasting blood sugars in type 2 diabetics [11]. We may speculate that wheat dextrin has a greater dampening effect on blood sugar excursion as compared to other types of dietary fiber, so those who added the most wheat dextrin to their diet saw the greatest effects.”– 
And
“Healthier Blood Sugar Levels: Dextrin is added as additive in many foods to make and like other fibers it can bring down the glycemic index of the foods.  Glycemic index of any food indicates how fast blood sugar levels will rise when it is eaten.  Foods such as pasta, rice, cakes, cookies rise the blood sugar levels too fast and in long term like to cause type 2 diabetes if the intake in not controlled.  When dextrin is added to foods it slows down the blood sugar rise.  It can also be taken as supplement around 1 hour before meals so that the food with you will have later is not going to cause sharp in blood sugar.”– Isn’t the glycemic index literally measured by testing a subjects blood sugar at intervals after consuming the ingredient in question (it is then calculated from the area under the curve of blood sugar vs time). And many research groups have calculated the GI of dextrin (and many other foods) and found it to be toxically high. The study you cite concerns kids with type I diabetes so it is plausible that the ingredient might have a different effect on people with that condition (though I suspect its just an outlier study. Also I have family members with type II diabetes and can definitely say from experience that blood sugar gets a pretty brutal kick if they accidentally have something with a lot of dextrose). The second link is from a private company so I’d view it with a heavy dose of skepticismI am certainly not an expert, but dextrin, while related, is not the same thing as dextrose and all those other things you mentioned. Dextrin is a fiber and is not digested, and therefore does not raise blood sugar levels. As noted on #5 in the above article on this page, “Although fiber is a carbohydrate, it is not digested and does not raise blood sugar or insulin. Water-soluble fiber, like dextrin, displays the most beneficial effect on glucose levels.”Quote from handbook published by Ministry of Agriculture Fisheries and Food……”When starch is subjected to dry heat, Dextrin is formed. This is more soluble than starch itself but less soluble than sugar. Starch in bread is changed to Dextrin, when the bread is toasted. Hope this is of some help. Best of luck.Funny how anyone takes this guy seriously,  LOL.  Calls himself a doctor
 because he earned 2 year Chiropractic certification but never attended
or earned any degrees from accredited school.  Oh well, enough sheeps to
 go around.