Soy has been incorrectly passed off as a healthy food for a long time. Soybean oil, soy milk, and even tofu are a staple in the lives of many people, especially vegetarians. However, most soy products are not real food — most are highly processed and genetically modified. In my opinion, the marketing of soy as a health food is probably one of the greatest bamboozles of all time.      One of the issues concerning soy is its high level of phytoestrogens — compounds that mimic estrogen in the body. Soy contains two primary phytoestrogens, sometimes called xenoestrogens, genistein, and daidzein. Both compounds are known to disrupt the endocrine system in males and females.  These, and all, estrogen compounds are classified as isoflavones.    Isoflavones are estrogen mimickers that increase estrogenic activity. This may be helpful at times for .  However, more often than not, isoflavones block and replace naturally-produced estrogen, an action that many experts believe is cause for concern. So what happens when things get out of balance?  Girls are reaching their first menstruation at earlier ages, now more than ever. Fifty years ago, it was common around a girl’s 13th birthday. Now it’s hitting girls under 10. Studies on young female rats suggest soy is a contributing factor.    If this doesn’t scare men away from soy, nothing will. Gynecomastia — male breast enlargement — has been tied to soy consumption.    Introducing estrogenic foods like soy into their diet can cause men to experience a . Soy may be a factor behind male and female .   There’s no denying the connection between xenoestrogens and breast cancer. Considering that breast cancer cells require stimulation via estrogen, it may be a wise idea to keep your consumption of estrogen and estrogen-like compounds in check, from all sources, including soy.     Perhaps the biggest problem with soy is we’re not fed this product in small amounts. Soy is a cheap, subsidized ingredient used in processed foods in the form of oil, thickeners, flavor enhancers, stabilizers, preservatives, and nutritive fillers. Check the ingredients, if you’re eating processed food, you’re probably eating soy.  Fermented soy, like tempeh and natto, can be really healthy since the goitrogens and nutritive inhibitors are significantly reduced. Regardless, keep in mind that most soy, even fermented, is likely to be GMO. When it comes to non-organic and unfermented soy, I’ve personally added it to my “avoid” list.    What are your thoughts on soy? Do you eat it? If so, what types of soy foods do you use? Please share with us your thoughts in the comments!
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.I eat it all the time… thought it was fine until I turned into a cat. No on a serious note, this news sucks… because I love  vegetarian food.What about Braggs liquid amino acids? I love the stuff. Was diagnosed with breast cancer. I am carefully choosing what I eat. Maybe not carefully enough. Do you have any diet guides that I could reference?I know I ate lots of soy in the past and have nice, big fibroids! I know eating soy has been a contributing factor in my enlarged fibroids, so I now attempt to watch what I eat, drink, and use, since soy is in mostly everything, i.e., body washes, butter, lotions, etc. I found this article after I experienced headaches and started lactating after eating a large quantity of soy nuts. I’ve also had this happen on the 2 occasions that I drank an entire carton of soy milk in a day. Soy DESTROYED my monthly cycles…completely ruined them. I avoid soy like the plague and will not eat ANYTHING with soy lecithin in it either.  Soy is dangerous.I drink Organic Non GMO soy milk at least once a day. I am 57 years old, early life hysterectomy and it does seem to keep hot flashes in check.I learned through suffering that soy is not my friend. I’m a 56 yo woman, done with menopause. At 49 when I was entering menopause I had also given up cow milk for the good of cows as well as lactose intolerance.Since both my mom & grandmother had hysterectomies young I had no lead on what to expect. I thought I was having brutal hot flashes with dripping sweat. It turned out to be a side effect of soy milk. I switched to coconut milk and the hot sweats stopped! Now every time I eat anything containing soy I get get brutal hot flashes. Chocolate candy contains soy! 🙁 Now I’m a vegetarian and struggling for protein foods. Everyone suggests tofu. Can’t! Soy product. 🙁Please do not listen to this study. He is not someone you can trust. He is dressed as a doctor, but it does not mean that the information he is giving is with your best intention in mind. Soy actually has been known to help with menopausal women and some countries have been using it for centuries to help with fertility issues.<3 You are hilarious.Do not trust this “doctor,” he is only spreading lies and deceit. Most likely getting paid by the meat and dairy industry to spread this bs. Do your own research on soy. Do not just follow what one site tells you. Soy has been used for centuries to help maintain a good balance of estrogen and helps with most fertility issues.I read all the references and none of the statement mentioned by Dr. Edward is valid. This article is scientific fraud!