Lemon juice is a popular ingredient used in fresh lemonade, facial tonics, and natural household cleaning recipes. Folk medicine says this  juice may even dissolve kidney stones, yet science remains inconclusive on these claims. But, science does agree that lemon juice may support kidney health; on the other end of that stick, lemon juice is by no means a cure all for kidney stones. Regardless of the ambiguity, lemon juice has potent nutritional benefits for the kidneys, possibly providing protection against . Again, many factors come into play here; however, lemon juice may still be a beneficial addition to the diet of anyone wanting to support the health of their kidneys.Let’s quickly examine the types of kidney stones before we fully investigate the benefits of lemon juice on stone development. The main contributors to kidney stones include: is a necessary mineral for the bones, teeth, heart, and nervous system. When the body has excess calcium, the kidneys respond by removing it from the blood and excreting it out through the urine. The problem arises when the body also has excess oxalate, a plant compound found in foods like spinach and kale. This combination can form calcium oxalate, the most common form of kidney stones.Lemon juice contains high levels of , not to be confused with ascorbic acid (vitamin C). While lemon juice contains both, citric acid seems to contribute to reducing the chances of developing calcium oxalate stones. In clinical studies, citric acid from  has been shown to reduce urine acidity, thereby reducing kidney stone incidence.    Vitamin C may also provide protection, yet it is unclear whether or not this protection is as significant as citric acid. Regardless, the bottom line is that lemon juice offers a complementary approach to  and, depending on the type of stones in question, possibly halting formation before it starts.Two to four ounces of lemon juice offers plenty of citric acid and a variety of other nutrients and antioxidants, all of which may be helpful for supporting kidney health. Always consume lemon juice in its raw, natural form by juicing organic lemons yourself. Never purchase bottled lemon juice, as these products are usually pasteurized and stripped of their raw enzymes and vital nutrients. Take a shot of it by itself or add it to smoothies, mix it with hot water and some , or make your own lemonade by combining fresh lemon juice with cold water. If you like your lemonade on the sweeter side, I suggest adding .Has lemon juice had a positive impact on your health? What are your favorite ways to consume lemon juice? Leave us a comment and let us know how you enjoy it!
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.That’s too bad about the spinach and Kale because they are considered super foods!They are great but like anything, too much and you’ll reach a point of diminishing returns.I recently out of the blue had a bad episode of kidney stones and a gallstone. I’m 37 and never had any issues until this one time. I’m actually still seeing specialist to see what the next step is. In the meantime I’ve been drinking lemon water almost every day as much as I can. I know right now they say there is no proof but I personally have see a world of difference. I have not had any episodes, or pain. Once in awhile I am achy but nothing has sent me to the ER. I heard horror stories and really think lemons have helped. Also use cream of tartar.  Great article Doc! Thank you for sharing.  Side note I have a twin brother with same issues. I blame him. LolGlad to hear you’re feeling better. Let us know how things progress. I agree, your brother is probably at fault.Question, Is it okay to squeeze 1/2 of lemon in a glass water bottle with water through out the day. Is there such a thing as too much lemon water ?? Should i do lemon water in 8 oz in the morning and then regular spring water throughout the day?  I usually try and drink 4-6 liters of water a day. I am athletic and just spent 6 miserable days passing kidney stones which I have never had before. I ended up having to have the laser treatment done because one stone was over 6mm (Calcium) . I am dedicated to staying hydrated and have been drinking warm lemon water first thing ever morning.   They also found a cyst ( simple) in my right kidney and my liver. Is there anything I can do to shrink them or get rid of them?You’re not likely to overdose on lemon water but the acidity might take a toll on your teeth if it’s constantly going in your mouth. Whether or not liver cleansing would help your cysts… couldn’t say. We get a lot of good reviews but cysts have a lot of causes and I can’t point  you to a study that says it makes cysts go away.Lemon juice and chanca piedra tea effectively dissolve kidney stones. But I am tired of getting them and am looking for a permanent solution. Such a solution could be the oxalobacter bacteria which removes the oxalates from the gut preventing them to reach the kidneys.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()“yet science remains inconclusive on these claims” — no, science has found no evidence that it works. That is much different than “inconclusive” which would indicate multiple conflicting studies.This site is simply a store front with enough sciency sounding articles to full gullible people into buying product.i always make kidney stone it disturbed me . every month i made on stone with bad pain but finally i learned to drink lemonade mixing with water and after 2 days i dropped the stone. i dropped 2 stone in 2 months by using lemonade. now everyday i drink a glass of it and its a long that my kidney is good and doesnt make stone.Hi doc thanks for your articles. I believe at times natural remedy is God given gift to humans to solve body alignments. I am a sufferer of stones too and I learn about lemon can perhaps help people like me to get rid of the stone from the body. I will hope to hear more people sharing in this platform so that we can hear different peoples solutions to this problem. I have been drinking warm honey/lemon water daily for at least three months.  Somewhere I read that this drink can help eliminate kidney stones.  I am 65-years old.  I love ice tea, and I love grapefruit.  Problem is I cannot drink ice tea or eat grapefruit without developing kidney stones.  After two months or so of the warm honey/lemon water, I decided to brave iced tea.  No problems.  I moved on to grapefruit.  Again, no problems.  Iced tea and grapefruit are now a regular part of my diet.  I am not a doctor or researcher, but if the proof is in the pudding, I can say that honey/lemon water has solved my decades long kidney stone problem with iced tea and grapefruit.This article says it’s the citric acid that does the trick yet also says use fresh raw lemon because bottled is pasteurized. Fresh or pasteurized both still contain citric acid which is what the article explains as being the cure all of the lemon for stones. Despite the nutrient loss and the “ORGANIC” payment for the certification of saying you’re consuming the most purest lemon known to man, wouldn’t bottled lemon have the same effect on riding stone?Possibly. Citric acid is fairly heat stable, so low-grade pasteurization won’t degrade the compound to any significant degree. If it’s heated to over 170 Celsius, however, then that’s probably another story. The issue with pasteurization is that it eliminates many naturally-occurring elements in foods, like enzymes, antioxidants, and vitamin C. Using the whole food ensures you are receiving what’s inherent in the unpasteurized option, rather than missing out on the full range of benefits typical of bottled, processed alternatives. Bottled lemon juice is certainly convenient, but not the best, at least in my opinion. You don’t even have to purchase organic lemons; the EWG says that non-organic lemons are just as fine as organic in the terms of pesticide load, unless you’re eating the peel.To prevent damage to your teeth, thorouthly blend or whisk olive oil into the straight lemon juice (you can also add honey, which is anti-bacterial). Take 2 – 4 Tblsps of the undiluted mixture instead of drinking lemonade.  The emulsified oil keeps the lemon from destroying your enamel.Is eating lemons as beneficial as drinking lemon water?  I eat about eight a day but do squeeze a lot of the juice out first. I have nine stones in my kidneys right now. They’re large and only hurt when they move. They’re starting to move I think as I have s terrible backache but no nausea yet. Hi dr my husband hv a 9mm kidney stone past 3 days his suffering to the core any alternate option we need it without surgery….Pingback: ()Pingback: ()I’m suffering from 2 stones in my both kidneys. One is 6mm and another one is 3mm large. How much lemon juice I’ll have to take or what precautions I must follow?Drink water – lots of it! Hydration is paramount. Good luck.I have been suffering from unexplained back pain from my first episode of kidney stone a year ago. I have done ultrasound so many times but nothing is diagnosed.Whenever I eat diet containing animal protein (such as milk, chicken) the severity of the pain increases. Whenever I eat diet containing fruits and vegetables the pain diminishes to a low level.Is it due to uric acid level in the blood? What medication should I take if it is due to Uric acid? Please explain I need help.I was in pain, had an MRI and was diagnosed with kidney stones. I was given flowmax and percocet and antibiotics. My mom told me to drink lemonade. I made a gallon of limeade every morning (with erithritol for sweetener) and drank it throughout the day every day for a week or two. All my symptoms went away, I stopped taking flowmax and percocet, and that was about 6 months ago – I did not get a new MRI to confirm they are GONE but there is no evidence by way of pain and discomfort!Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Taking a gallon of fluid a day is a lot of water! That probably helped wash them out.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Minute Maid sells a 100% pure lemon juice from concentrate in the frozen food section. Comes in a plastic yellow bottle. It’s not organic however. I’ve been using several squirts of that into a gallon of water I drink thru the day. I go thru 1 bottle a week as it says it contains the juice of 7 lemons, so that equates to one lemon/day which I’ve read is ample for kidney stone prevention. I recently began to buy organic lemons & squeezing them & putting that juice into 3 empty bottles I saved & I freeze them. Works out to about the same price but for organic and truly fresh squeezed. Win-win.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()My wife has a kidney disorder called medgulary sponge kidney. She produces stones like a rock quarry!!! I feel so bad for her she been to many urologists but no fixes other than removing her kidney but problem is both kidneys are full of stones! She has passes sum as large as “CORN KERNELS” I can’t remember for sure but I think it was 13-14 mm. But no matter the size there all bad. While pregnant with our last 2 kids they was very bad she ended up having 1 stuck during both pregnancies and had to have a nefrostemy tube put in and a pee bag to relieve pressure off kidney until babies was born. She’s had this condition since she was seven years old and sum weeks passed numerous stones multiple at times. Many surgeries lithotripsy seems to work the best/easiest on her but just temporary solution. I would love to be able to take her pain away!!! Sum1 plz find a cure for this problem or at least a way to make them turn to jelly or sand like substance. Thanks. Fresh and succulent lemons are usually heavier than dry lemons, so make sure that your lemon has some weight.
Zapping helps break the fibre content inside the lemon and give you the opportunity to collect maximum juice from the lemon fruit.I’m 53 yrs old now. I donated my kidney 2015, and it was the easiest surgery I ever had, I didn’t even used any medications after the surgery, even the pain reliever, I just started drinking fresh ginger tea months before my surgery. I’m drinking lemon with warm water when I get up in the morning for almost 5 yrs now, I even soak lemon peel over night with water then next day it will be my water the whole day as I heard lemon feel has a lot of benifits too. I can say this 2 ingredients are miraculous drinks. At my age I don’t take any supplements or maintenance drugs, I ate healthy food and do some walking. I felt so great til this day and didn’t even notice I only have one kidney.Just let her drink a lot of water helps,I suffer from kidney stones..  I’m also diabetic and am very actuve outside.. I sweat quit a bit… and often do not get enough fluids..  I get kidney stones.. a doctor years ago suggested I make lemonaid.. make it as strong as I can stand it.. a week to ten days later… there generally are no signs I ever had stones..  so there was no amount that was suggested… just as strong as I could stand it. Hope this helpsLemons worked 100% for my stones wish 8 knew sooner because I spent so much time in and out of hospitals! I am a chronic kidney stone producer for 13 years. Tried diets, lithotripsy and had stents put in one of my pregnancies. I started juicing lemons in about 2013.  As soon as I feel that ache in back I usually get a catscan done to confirm size. My last 10mm was about 7 months ago. I drink tons water with lemon sometimes I throw a shots in of braggs apple cider vinegar and stay active and Since 2013 I have passed about 11 stones at home. So much better than staying in the hospital to get iv and pain meds or surgeries. Lemons 🍋 did the trick. If I can just drink enough every day maybe I could prevent 🤔