Selenium is a powerful trace mineral that everyone needs. Along with , selenium is . It supports the immune system and it’s a powerful antioxidant.   Adults need at least 55 micrograms a day and some people consume more, depending on their needs (it’s best to stay under 400mcg/day). Although fish and meat are great sources of selenium, don’t be fooled into thinking you can’t get it from plants. As a matter of fact, there are an abundance of natural foods that are great sources of selenium, including nuts, seeds, and green vegetables. At a glance, let’s take a look at the 7 best vegetarian sources of selenium.Without a doubt, Brazil nuts are one of the best sources of selenium! Tasty, delicious, and loaded; one study showed that just two brazil nuts per day for 12 weeks raised selenium levels to a normal range. Shiitake mushrooms taste great and, in addition to providing selenium, they’re an excellent source of Vitamin D, antioxidants, and other essential trace minerals.Poll any group of third graders for their favorite foods and it’s unlikely that lima or pinto beans will be on the list. But, there’s no denying their nutritional potency. In addition to selenium, lima and pinto beans are a great source of  and fiber. are one of my favorite . One of their interesting traits is that, when exposed to water, they expand and take on a gel-like consistency. It takes on any flavor and prompts a feeling of being full much faster than other foods. They’re a great source of fiber, amino acids, and a perfect balance of omega-3 and omega-6 fatty acids. If you’re looking for a gluten-free grain, you have a few choices.  and  are emerging in popularity, and . It’s an excellent, all-around source of essential nutrients, including complex carbohydrates, B vitamins, and soluble fiber.When it comes to nutritional potency, it’s hard to beat a handful of ! They’re rich in essential omega 3 & 6 fatty acids, protein, and fiber. They’re also little selenium power-ups. Take your pick of , sesame seeds, or .Selenium is just one of many nutrients you’ll find in . In fact, greens are generally one of the best nutritional smorgasbords of minerals, vitamins, antioxidants, protein, calcium, magnesium, and chlorophyll available. If these aren’t the cornerstone of your diet, they need to be!These are just a few vegetarian-friendly sources of selenium that you can add to your diet to boost its nutritional value. You can also opt for supplementation. If that’s the case, always choose a high-quality supplement like my . It is a highly bioavailable supplement extracted from 100% certified organic mustard seeds.Do you have other favorite foods you prefer that are a source of selenium? Leave a comment and let us know!
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Whether Brazil nut is available in India. How to get ?Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()