 Soy milk is heralded as being a healthy alternative to dairy, with many proponents noting its low levels of saturated fat and absence of dietary cholesterol. Despite these claims, soy contains phytoestrogens, compounds that can . Women in particular are at an increased risk from the many hormone-disrupting substances found in soy. A woman’s monthly cycle is carefully monitored by her endocrine (glandular) system, and anything that interferes with this system can have far-reaching and devastating effects. Soy contains isoflavones that act as estrogen mimickers, an aspect that can have both positive and negative effects. As a result, a diet high in soy can severely harm a woman’s health, both in the short and long term.      While the hype around soy continues to retain a strong hold in the health food industry, very few organizations are speaking out about its ill health effects. Fortunately, an increasing number of independent researchers are beginning to step forward, voicing their issues with this popular food. Here are the top health concerns of soy consumption related to female health.      While  through soy consumption may sound ideal, particularly for women who are experiencing a diminished sex drive, one reported case may change your mind. Constant sexual arousal often results in patients needing to please themselves (for lack of a better phrase) multiple times a day, usually to the point of pelvic pain. It turns out that these patients, uncommon as they are, derive no pleasure from the experience and are often less likely to come forward for treatment. A case of a 44-year old woman experiencing persistent sexual arousal discovered that her recent soy regimen was the culprit behind the disorder. Once the soy was removed, the condition resolved.     Infertility is a growing concern among men and women alike, and more and more couples are finding that it is difficult or impossible to conceive. In England, about 1 in 6 couples have trouble conceiving, with some researchers relating this rate to the ever-increasing pervasiveness of  in the environment.  Women who consume a hefty amount of phytoestrogens–estrogen compounds naturally found in the soy plant–may battle infertility.     Studies now show that , directly affecting his ability to father children. Unfortunately, there are no tests to determine if soy might be the cause of infertility. Nonetheless, if you and your partner are having trouble conceiving, you both might consider removing soy from your diet.    Girls as young as 6 have been reported as experiencing early-onset puberty. Tragically, this case is no longer considered highly unusual. The age of puberty has been dropping dramatically over the last few decades, and it’s now somewhat common for a girl to reach menarche between ages 8 through 10.  has been strongly tied to early puberty in females and males.  Not only is the amount of soy a young girl eats a contributing factor, the soy the mother consumes during pregnancy can also influence puberty age. Pregnant women should limit their intake of soy products, and soy-based formulas should never be used.  Xenoestrogens are substances similar or identical to estrogen that are not produced by the body. They may be inhaled, absorbed through the skin, injected, or eaten. Because of their similarity to estrogen, xenoestrogens interfere with . They have been tied to many kinds of cancer,  particularly ovarian and breast cancer.  Soy is loaded with xenoestrogens, something that should raise caution in the health industry.  This post is not meant to demonize all forms of soy, but merely to provide education on the highly-processed, non-organic (genetically-modified) soy foods, like soy milk and tofu. Fermented soy is an extremely nutrient-dense food that is safe for the body. The fermentation process produces major changes in soy’s structure and removes most of the food’s goitrogens (thyroid-harming substances). Any harmful residual effects are mitigated by the fact that fermented soy foods are almost always eaten in small quantities.    Fermented soy foods include:  Soy is found in the majority of processed and prepackaged foods, often hidden in flavor enhancers () and preservatives. Being a subsidized food crop, soy is incredibly cheap and is used to make stabilizers, appearance enhancers, and emulsifiers. The majority of soy is also genetically modified, so if the soy you’re eating isn’t organic, chances are you are eating a Frankenfood product. If you’re seeking to protect your reproductive, mental, and overall health, I highly recommend reducing, if not eliminating, most forms of soy from your diet.    What are your thoughts on soy? Are you a soy proponent, or opponent? Let us know your thoughts in the comments!
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.So the choice is simple ladies:
You can drink soy milk and be randy all the time or you can drink cow’s milk and die of a massive cardiac infarction.Your choice.My ex sister in law was raised on soy formula as an infant. She ended up with weight issues, fertility and menstrual issues.What about someone 68 years old and looking to go Vegan??I was raised drinking cow’s milk, eating meat etc. I had very irregular menstrual cycle, often going months without a period. I have been vegetarian for 20 years now, and drinking soy milk for about 2 years. My cycle is still regular now (and I am taking nothing to regulate my cycle).I grew up eating soybeans as a major source of the family’s protein, (they’re pretty tasty when pressure cooked). I had a wildly irregular cycle until I had children, but then, so did my mom. And it had begun BEFORE we were eating soy. I also took soy, (careful to stick to a single brand and dosage level) during menopause and had next to none of the emotional and physical disasters one can have. Now, I find myself with possible postmenopausal depression and am going to go back on soy to see if it levels out. I’d rather do a low dose soy supplement than major antidepressants, at least at first.My Korean grandmother passed away at 92. She grew up eating soy product all her life and had no issues. Maybe it was organic home grown and home made-mostly miso.