Your kidneys provide a vital service to your body—they filter waste from your blood and send it to your bladder. They also regulate blood pressure, manage water reabsorption, control the acidity in the body, and balance electrolyte levels. Considering their importance, eating a diet to promote kidney health could be one of the best things you can do. The following seven foods will  and make their job easier.These tasty little fruits help reduce redness and swelling and contain a healthy amount of vitamin C as well as vitamin K, folate, vitamin B6, magnesium, and citrate. The more tart the cherry, the higher the level of citrate. Citrate reduces uric acid in the bloodstream which can lead to gout and arthritis. Those who eat cherries have been found to have lower uric acid levels and a lower risk of gout attacks.Cranberries also offer high levels of  and manganese. Women have traditionally used it to fight off UTIs. Recent research has found pure cranberry juice (not the sugary stuff) diluted in water reduced urinary levels of oxalate and phosphate which reduce the formation of kidney stones.Cinnamon is known for its ability to help regulate glucose levels. This can help the body  and offer protection from blood sugar disorders. Excess glucose that results from diabetes can cause damage to the kidneys. Another study confirmed that cinnamon could be used as a supplement without concern for increased oxalate risk.Kidney beans are known as an effective home remedy for kidney stones. In ancient times, the pods served as a medicinal tonic.To reduce kidney stone pain- remove the beans from the pods and in a slow cooker, boil the pods in purified water for 6 hours. Once finished, strain the liquid and let it cool before drinking. Drink throughout the day.Like fish,  provides a healthy serving of nutrient dense, unsaturated fats. Olive oil is also the basis for the ‘Mediterranean Diet.’ A recent study found individuals suffering from chronic kidney disease who adopted this diet experienced improvements in both symptoms and survival. The active components in olives improve the life of those suffering from chronic kidney disease and will certainly provide kidney support to those looking to maintain kidney health.Also known as , this herb has been a standard of folk medicine for a long time. It is typically used for kidney disorders. A recent study has confirmed it to support the kidneys, as well as the  and gastrointestinal tract. It also offers potentials for blood sugar stabilization, antioxidant protection, and blood pressure stabilization.Both onions and garlic contain quercetin. Quercetin is a powerful flavonoid associated with antioxidant benefits and potency against redness and irritation. Research has found quercetin helps provide protection against kidney damage for smokers. For non-smokers, the bonus protection provided by quercetin combined with improved fat metabolism helps protect the body’s filters.    If you already enjoy these foods regularly, know that you’re doing your kidneys a favor. Improving your diet is always the best way to improve nutrition. If this proves impractical, then you may want to add a reliable kidney health supplement to your diet. Try —a blend of organic and wildcrafted herbs, specifically designed to encourage optimal kidney health.Did I miss a food that you eat to support your kidneys? Please weigh in and leave a comment below!
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.Additional foods listed on other websites include: quinoa, black beans, red beans, lemons, beets, grapes, spirulina, spinach, nettles, ginger, millet, barely, tofu, string beans, asparagus, tumeric, apple, Omega 3 (fish), dandelion tea, parsley, adzuki beans, cucumber, artichokes, shitake mushrooms, watermelon, blackberries.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Corn silk tea (non gmo).Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()“The shape and name of these beans may suggest which organs benefit most from their healing potential.” Kidney beans are called Kidney beans because they look like kidneys. Eating things that look like organs to help heal those organs is not science. It’s horseshit. Unless you believe in magic.I don’t think the assertion was quite that vigorous but if speaking about it like that makes you feel better…You are very pessimistic.  If you do not believe in magic…I suggest you start because just to be alive is magic.  You come from a single cell and grow into an amazing being that is more complex than your pea-brain can even begin to comprehend. To say that it is not science is what is horsehit.  Im sorry but science is not the know all end all.  There are many things that science cannot explain such as Quantum Physics how particles behave differently when being obsevrved.  Smoke Some CharlyPingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()If used in a more traditional manner then Cordyceps.  Used only as a supplement in the West traditionally served as a soup or even a wine.  Cordyceps strengthens kidney function while correcting several kidney issues.Pingback: ()Some of the foods listed above should also be avoided if you suffer from Stones that are caused from a High Oxalate Diet.  Which I suffer from. Spinach is a food that I absolutely must avoid.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()i will prefer Onion and GarlicI was believing the recs until he said that.  Sorry but no. On the other hand maybe I should be looking for food that looks like a nose since I tend to get pain on the bridge of my nose come winter.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()and cherriesPingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Please specify the right type of cinnamon. Cassia (Saigon) cinnamon contains high levels of coumarin and can cause liver damage as well as internal bleeding if combined with blood thinners. Ceylon (true) cinnamon does none of those things and is beneficial.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()oh, for heaven sake, either update this website with answers to questions/comments or get rid of it. Individuals posting ‘remedies’ with no response from the authors of this website is borderline harmful.