          Gluten sensitivities and  are on the rise, making gluten a very popular topic. Because it’s a subject with many facets, here are 9 facts for you to consider to make a sound, rational decision as to whether you should monitor, or possibly eliminate gluten from your diet.              …a naturally occurring protein composite found primarily in wheat, rye and barley, as well as some types of oats.  Gluten consists of gliadin and glutenin.  Gliadin is one of the proteins that forms gluten.  Doctors will test for anti-gliadin antibodies if celiac disease or gluten hypersensitivity is suspected. In celiac patients, the gliadin triggers immune response. Glutenin is the other protein comprising gluten. From a dietary view, gluten has only recently entered the human diet; it gives bread elasticity and strength.     Corn, rice and certain types of oats do not contain gluten.  These grains do not typically provoke a response in individuals with celiac disease or with gluten sensitivity.    …is a false statement.  Researchers have determined that in many cases the human mouth contains symbiotic bacteria colonies that help break down gluten. Whether these bacteria have developed in the mouth, or have become prevalent because gluten has become part of the modern western diet still remains a point of conversation.    Those with a gluten allergy (celiac disease) and those with gluten sensitivity suffer similar symptoms such as bloating, , Irritable Bowel Syndrome, and abdominal pain.  However, individuals with celiac disease suffer further complications from gluten consumption. Persons with gluten sensitivity can avoid complications by following a gluten free diet.     Celiac disease is an allergy to gluten.  Individuals suffering from celiac disease produce an intestinal immune response when gluten has been consumed.  This response includes intestinal redness.  The inability to absorb nutrients can occur, as well as weakening of the intestinal wall.    For those with , gluten does much more than create , diarrhea and other unpleasant intestinal symptoms.  Gluten can inhibit nutrient absorption.  It can also get into the blood stream and create more serious problems such as bone loss or problems with bone mineral density, impaired hearing, dermatitis herpetiformis (a serious rash, though unrelated to herpes, despite its name), and potentially damaging effects to the brain.         Children can experience a range of problems related to gluten consumption.  Those born with a gluten allergy (celiac disease) have obvious complications; however, doctors are finding more and more children expressing symptoms of gluten sensitivity and other gastrointestinal illnesses.  This suggests that gluten sensitivity can develop quickly.  When a sensitivity like this arises in the youth population, consideration should be taken in terms of dietary sources, in particular, its inclusion in processed food.    While gluten sensitivity reflects problems with the modern ‘Western’ diet and food processing practices, gluten sensitivity affects people worldwide. However, the solution is worldwide as well. From Australia to the United States and everywhere in between, the gluten-free industry has grown quickly to meet the needs of gluten sensitive individuals.     For anyone looking to avoid or eliminate gluten from the diet, the key is knowing what to avoid and what to eat.  Part of that challenge is knowing the range of names of products that contain gluten. To eliminate gluten, avoid products containing barley rye, triticale (a cross of rye and wheat), wheat and wheat products such as bulgur, durum flour, farina, graham flour, kamut, semolina, and spelt.      Of course this goes for any foods using any of these products, such as breads, cakes, pastas, etc… and it also includes many sauces, soups, and even processed meats where gluten is used to add flavor. It can take a little effort to get started, but once you know what to look for, it is easy. To get started with gluten free foods, I recommend looking to natural fruits and vegetables, fresh eggs, meats and seafood, and grains like rice, buckwheat and flax.  
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.Hallow. Dr EdwardI would like to inquire to hear from you if you know Thomas Wrobel of
Califonia. lam inquiring to get some good answers about his passion.
Could you kindly tell me about Thomas S Wrobel.lam looking forward
to hear from your testmony that is if you know Thomas S Wrobel.SincerelyFredaGreat article! Thanks for sharing! Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()