Thyroid problems affects millions of people around the world, including those in industrialized countries such as the United States. The conditions resulting from thyroid problems can be extremely serious. As a regulator of hormone production and metabolism, the thyroid needs to function properly to maintain good health. The good news is, there are  you can take to help support your thyroid.The thyroid needs very specific nutrients to maintain proper function. First and . Selenium has also been recognized recently as a .  Iron and zinc have also been recognized as important elements for thyroid function.  The following 9 foods provide quality dietary sources of these necessary elements. They also include complete nutritional content including quality protein, high quantities of necessary vitamins (such as B vitamins needed in hormone production), antioxidants and more!Sea vegetables are a great source of iodine and dulse seaweed has been found to offer the most consistent and highest concentrations of .  This purple-brown sea vegetable is full of potassium and is an excellent source of protein. (In addition to dulse seaweed, arame, kombu, nori, sea palm and wakame are also quality iodine and nutrient sources.)Fish is a great source of dietary iodine, plus the amazing benefits of omega-3 fatty acids which have been found to contribute to a healthy heart. Deep sea fish such as cod and haddock contain the highest densities of dietary iodine. all around, and the oil from coconut has been used as a healing food for a long time.  contains essential fatty acids needed for . These fatty acids are easily assimilated by the body and contribute to thyroid function, thyroid hormone production and regulating the metabolism.Beans are a good source of zinc and iron. They also provide quality proteins and are an excellent source of B vitamins and vitamin C. More important, beans such as lima or pinto beans are a . For example, 1 cup of cooked beans contains 13 mcg of selenium or 19% of your daily value.In this category, eggs would be the best source for iodine as they contain nearly 16% of the recommended daily value. A recent study of US schoolchildren found that general dairy intake including milks, yogurts, and cheese contributed to healthy iodine levels.  Although dairy isn’t part of , many other people include it in theirs; I would encourage you to select products made from organic, vegetarian-fed, free range animals.Although not appropriate for vegans or vegetarians, these organ meats, especially beef liver, provide iron, zinc and selenium as well as high-quality proteins. They also provide a more complete, nutrient-dense source of calcium, potassium, Vitamins A, C and D, and the B vitamins than most fruits and vegetables. Again, if you go this route, select products from organic, vegetarian-fed animals.While most , almonds provide a potent source of nutrients needed by the thyroid. Almonds combine quality values of iron, selenium and zinc with essential B vitamins and high protein content.For a lean protein source, turkey is an excellent source of selenium. It also contains iron and essential amino acids.Why choose one when any of the  will work? Spinach, kale, collard greens, swiss chard, mustard or turnip greens are all a great source of iron, B vitamins (needed for hormone creation), Vitamins A, C and D, magnesium and their incredible antioxidants. These superfoods not only supply the nutrients the thyroid needs, they also help protect overall health.Following a strict diet can be difficult. Vegans, vegetarians, people with food allergies, and those with religious dietary restrictions may find that some of the best sources of essential nutrients are off-limits. Don’t let this discourage you. While food sources are the best way to get essential nutrients, supplementation is a viable option. For situations like this, we offer our , combining our best thyroid-supporting supplements- iodine, selenium, and, vitamin B12. Did I miss any healthy thyroid foods? What’s your favorite? Please leave a comment below and share your thoughts or recipes with us!
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.beet greens (?)Thanks for your article, you had more than most others. Having specific quantities and % of dv also helps.Is this applicable to either hypothyroidism or hyperthyroidism?As for the best greens. What you have listed are those which are available in most stores.
However I grow kale, mustard and turnip greens.
Also I tend to use the “weeds” which Nature provides. Namely lambsquarter, chickweed, purslane, amaranth and dandelion. These are the freshest I can obtain.Not necessarily, check out these articles for information on those topics-To my dismay I’ve been reading that the goitrogenic, cruciferous vegetables can cause a goiter, slow down the thyroid, or cause hypothyroidism. I have hypothyroidism and just had an ultrasound this week which showed my thyroid to be slightly more enlarged than last year. For the past 6 months I have been juicing and eating so many of the green vegetables that fall into this category and are recommended in this article. I am new to this site for I started Nascent Iodine about one month ago and felt better with it, but again was rather alarmed with my recent ultrasound result. Please let me know where Dr. Group stands on the effects of goitrogenic foods on the thyroid.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()I have been reading that the cruciferous veggies should not be eaten raw but when heated, do not affect the thyroid negatively.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()My favorite vegetable, broccoli, seems to be on all the do not eat lists.Hello,
My name is Madalina.
Thank you for the article, all so very helpful 🙂
I’ve been diagnosed with Hashimoto’s last year and although my specialist insisted to be put on light meds,I refused thinking I’ll sort it out for myself in natural ways, but hasn’t worked out that great for me as I feel I need more guidance.
For example, I’m still struggleing to find good information about what to eat or not (as I’m finding contradictory information about certain foods as almonds or even spinach).
Or either to go on the meds or not, as I’m very scared to take those chemicals and artificial hormones into my body.
Could you please advise me with these struggles?Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()I know green leafy vegetables are very healthy but I keep reading that goitrogenic ( cruciferous) vegetables should be avoided because these vegetables can worsen low functioning thyroid.
Then the iron found in cruciferous vegetables and almonds decrease the absorption of levothyroxine/ Synthroid people take to treat hypothyroidism.