Mulberries are delicious and nutritious, people all over the world enjoy it.  Mulberries are a product of the Morus alba tree. Its leaves, which also contain nutrients and are even used as food for silkworms, are thin, glossy and light green; the fruit, like grapes, is red or white and grows in bunches called “drupes.”  Antioxidants help lessen the damage caused by free radicals and the entire mulberry plant- leaves, stems, and fruit, contains antioxidants.   One antioxidant in particular, resveratrol, has gotten much attention. Research published by the University of Texas Health Science Center credits resveratrol for positive effects on age and longevity.   Mulberries contain alkaloids that activate macrophages. Macrophages are white blood cells that stimulate the immune system, putting it on high active alert against health threats.     More formal research is appropriate, but mulberry is thought to contain compounds that support balanced blood sugar levels.  Traditional medicine in China, Trinidad and Tobago have all used mulberry leaves to promote balanced blood sugar levels.      Dried mulberries are a great source of protein, vitamin C and K, fiber, and iron. Best of all, they’re available in health food stores everywhere! Enjoy them as a great snack all by themselves or add them to your favorite trail mix. If you live in a warm climate and are lucky enough to have mulberry trees nearby, you can enjoy the fruit fresh off the tree. Not as tasty as the fruit, even the leaves contain protein, fiber, and nutrients!     Practitioners of traditional Chinese medicine have used mulberry as a remedy for swelling and redness.  A recent Romanian study discovered that a curcumin and mulberry leaf combination may be a new lead into natural remedies for this sort of irritation.     Do mulberries offer anything to the brain?  Researchers at Khon Kaen University in Thailand set out to answer that question by evaluating the effect of mulberry on male rats with memory impairment and brain damage.  Although further investigation is required before mulberries can be declared a cognitive enhancer and neuroprotectant, rats that consumed mulberries had better memories and less oxidative stress.   
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.As a child my parents would infuse the mulberry leaves and make me gargles,to help my sore throat and today we still using  grand ma remedy .In India  they seem to use the mulberry wood – skin- and roots too.Thank you so much for this info. I’ve been taking mulberry leaves liquid chlorophyll and i loved it !!!! 😀Awesome! What benefit have you noticed the most?Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()I have found out that I am highly allergic to Mulberries… I have been told not to go near the plant nor the fruit… so I am wondering..if I am that allergic to Mulberries..can I eat blackberries? They look very similar.. I was not told I was allergic to blackberries.. so I would imagine it is ok..but am just asking. Bt the way..I am so allergic to Mulberries..cats and Johnson grass that I have to carry around an Epi-pen just in case I have an allergic reaction.. Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Really? Then perhaps these immune health benefits refer only to the leaves and perhaps the fresh mulberries (berries), as I have been eating a lot (100g+ a day, every day) of organic dried white mulberries these last two weeks but I still got the flu this week!Isn’t that too much sugar if you have more than 100g a day?…Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()