  Bergamot is a citrus plant found in Italy, the oil extracted from the peel of the fruit has many uses, including supporting balanced blood sugar, cholesterol, and providing support to an individual’s weight loss efforts.        Essential oil of bergamot contains cleansing and astringent substances, this makes it beneficial for a wide range of conditions and situations.  However, perhaps what draws the most attention to bergamot is that, especially when compared to other citrus varieties, bergamot contains extremely large amounts of polyphenols.  Polyphenols are helpful compounds believed to halt production of blood fats, stimulate the metabolism, and prevent the absorption of cholesterol.    Like lavender or peppermint, bergamot is one of a few essential oils that can stimulate the endocrine system to produce relaxed and calm feelings.  This action can combat emotional stress, a symptom commonly linked to overeating or “comfort eating.”  Typically, unhealthy foods are the most consumed during periods of emotional eating.  The stress relieving action of bergamot essential oil promotes weight loss in that it helps combat the emotional stress that can lead to overeating and unhealthy food consumption.    Bergamot also stimulates hormone secretion and helps maintain proper metabolic rates. This stimulation increases digestive juices, bile, and insulin; all of which promote nutrient absorption, decomposition of sugar and fats, and the lowering of blood sugars.  When a  or digestive issues lead to malnutrition and/or excessive weight gain, bergamot may provide a boost.    Triglyceride levels are measurements of the amount of fats in your blood.  Higher levels indicate more fat.  High blood sugar readings are an indication that the body is retaining more glucose than it is eliminating.  In turn, accumulated glucose gets stored as fat.    Bergamot has the added advantage of lowering blood sugars and triglycerides. Bergamot inhibits an enzyme (HMG-CoA) linked to the liver’s production of cholesterol; this limits LDL (Low Density Lipoprotein) production and reduces the bad LDL cholesterol in the blood.    HMG-CoA is also linked to blood sugar levels, being most active when blood sugar is high.  By lowering blood sugar, bergamot affects HMG-CoA reductase activity.    Research on more than 200 patients with high cholesterol was performed by the University of Catanzaro in Italy.  Researchers noted that, after a month of taking bergamot, subjects experienced reductions in LDL levels and blood sugar.  HDL levels (good cholesterol) rose by over 40%.    Extra body weight is often a problem with a number of contributing factors.  Making a concerted effort to change lifestyle habits is a great step but when a sluggish metabolism, comfort eating, or high blood sugar hinder progress, evidence suggests the essential oil of bergamot may help.   
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.How do you take Bergamont Essential Oil? I already have an bottle of an organic oil. Can I put some drops in capsules? How many can I ingest?I just want
to tell you that I’m very new to weblog and seriously loved this web site. Very
likely I’m want to bookmark your blog . You amazingly have impressive well
written articles. Kudos for sharing your web-site.Janet,
Thank you for your post!  Bergamot might work by blocking the production of cholesterol in the liver. This action might force the liver to seek cholesterol stored in the bloodstream when production falls too low. Substances found in the fruit have been compared to commercial drugs in their ability to lower cholesterol. Some manufacturers of bergamot supplements suggest two to four 500 milligram capsules daily for the first month, and one capsule daily as a maintenance dose.  It may be wise to seek out the help of a reputable Naturopath in your area to help you better determine a good dosage for you. Thank you for your post, take care and be well! Hi ghc_health.  I don’t think this answers Janet’s question, it doesn’t answer my question – – how do you take bergamot essential oil?  the entire article is about “taking” bergamot essential oil.  I have a bottle of it at home as well.  I don’t see you saying “put a couple of drops in your smoothïe”.  Are you saying the only way to follow this advice is to buy another supplement?Leslie, ghc_health said that I could put what I have into caps and that “some manufacturers of bergamot supplements suggest two to four 500
milligram capsules daily for the first month, and one capsule daily as a
 maintenance dose” to try to lower cholesterol. No telling how the oil compares to the other products, but I was just thinking I could take some when I wanted my blood sugar stabilized. Better take care of my diet and just use the oil for calming via aroma therapy.where can u purchase this oil to be ingested? contains bergamot essential oil, as well as other organic herbs that promote healthy body weight.Pingback: ()I read that Naringin is the active ingredient in Bergamot. Would purchasing just naringin be as effective as Bergamot or is there something special about the Bergamot fruit that is preferred?Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()