Dieting can be a struggle.  There is a misconception that in order to lose weight, it’s necessary to stop eating.  Nothing could be further from the truth.  It is necessary to cut out junk food, refined sugars, and other pitfalls; but these must be replaced with raw and organic fruits, vegetables, and nuts.  In your quest to lose fat, don’t cut out nutrition.  Although the caloric bottom line does matter, the quality and composition of the calories you eat is also a factor.  A few pieces of fruit may have the same number of calories as a candy bar but one provides substance, the other does not.    Independent of fat storage, your body has systems and processes running all the time- your immune, neurological, cardiovascular, and endocrine system all require nutrients!  When a weight loss product or plan says to include a sensible diet, you can use this list of foods as a reference and replacement for processed foods and refined sugars!    Oranges, lemons, grapefruit, tangerines, and limes are citrus fruits that promote weight loss by their high concentrations of vitamin C. Research conducted at the University of Arizona suggets person with vitmain C deficiencies oxidize less fat .  Vitamin C not only helps to burn fat, but also reduce the levels of harmful cholesterol in the blood. Boost your vitamin C intake adding one or two citrus fruits to your diet every day.    Whole grains are high in fiber and have a low glycemic index, meaning they slowly raise blood sugars, which does not result in a spike in fat storage.  Low GI foods help curb appetite prolong the feeling of being full.  Weight loss promoting whole grain foods include whole wheat bread, whole grain cereals, and brown rice.    Lecithin, found in soybeans, is a chemical that prevents fat from forming on your cells and breaks down fat before it can accumulate in your body. Frozen soybeans are available but fresh is better and can be found at most health food stores or your local market, try adding soybeans as a healthy snack!    Apples and many berries contain large amounts of pectin in their cell walls. Pectin is a soluble fiber that provides bulk and digests slowly, helping you to feel full.  Pectin encourages weight loss in that it helps to limit the amount of fat cells can absorb.  Pectin also has a water binding property that allows it to absorb watery substances and penetrate cells. These watery substances then bombard the cells and cause them to release fat deposits.    Garlic oil helps to protect cells fatty deposit accumulation. Additionally, garlic is a potent antibiotic that supports the immune system.    Black beans are low in fat and packed with fiber, a whopping 15 grams of fiber per cup. Fiber fills you up and takes longer to digest so you feel full for longer, making you less apt to snack.    Many spicy foods, such as peppers, contain a chemical called capsaicin. Capsaicin has been shown to increase your body’s ability to burn fat and curb your appetite .  Organically grown or locally grown fruit and vegetables grown without pesticide sprays or GMOs are found in many grocery stores. You have to look for them but they are available. Meat from organic raised livestock is also a good choice. The benefit to your health is worth the modest extra cost.    Or, to save both time and money, you can grow your own produce in a backyard garden.  This depends on your space availability but even growing your own herbs requires very little space or effort and is a good start. Gardening has the added benefit of being therapeutic.    There are many foods that promote weight loss by filling you up so you feel satisfied, regulating your blood sugar levels, and stimulating your metabolism to help you burn fat. Boost your intake of these foods and you’ll have a better chance of losing the weight you need to lose.  Along with a healthy weight loss plan that includes diet and exercise, some people find an added edge by adding a  to their routine.  
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.Fantastic article. Thanks. 🙂  …but honestly, *save* time by growing your own vegis? lol. Not exactly…Too expensive still to eat organicPingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()