Your gut is home to good and bad bacteria, and maintaining that balance is more important than you think. Sure, maybe you already know taking  (the “good” bacteria) can promote healthy digestion, but did you know recent studies suggest even more positives, like an immune system boost and mental health support?   If you’re feeling a little rundown and you’re not sure why, maybe probiotics could help.     But how can you get those probiotics from a vegan diet? Because veganism cuts out all animal products, proper nutrition—especially for the new vegan—can be tricky.  If you’re planning on getting your , there are some options out there that aren’t exactly vegan-friendly. For example, dairy-based yogurt is no longer an option; however, you can always make or buy your own live-cultured non-dairy yogurt. Coconut milk yogurt is becoming more common in the grocery stores today, and are a much better option (health-wise) than soy-based yogurts.Here are some vegan foods that you can try right now that are also high in naturally-occurring probiotics:  A well-known choice is certainly the traditional pickle, but any vegetable that’s been pickled or fermented with bacterial cultures (in addition to salt and spices) can be a great probiotic source. Kimchi, for example, is an excellent probiotic choice for this reason. Always keep in mind, though, pickled and fermented vegetables can contain high levels of sodium.  , kombucha also has sugar, yeast, and—you guessed it—probiotics. It’s a popular item in stores right now, but always be sure you’re looking for a product that’s been tested; this helps rule out the presence of “bad” bacteria.Most of you have probably heard of . And as many sources of B-12 are in non-plant based foods, many vegans might find it difficult to get enough of the vitamin.  Tempeh, an excellent substitute for tofu, is also a reliable source of B12.  As one of the healthiest diet options, veganism can be extremely rewarding for your health. A poorly planned vegan diet, however, can definitely be nutritionally deficient. Finding reliable probiotic sources—like the ones listed above—can help with that, as can a good vegan supplement. A daily probiotic supplement is a reliable way to get consistent probiotic support. Currently, I recommend and use two different products: Latero-Flora™ which is the B.O.D. Bacillus Laterosporus strain and a more advanced formula, , which contains active cultures from 23 different probiotic strains. Either of these are a solid choice and I’ve been extremely satisfied with them both.Have you considered taking probiotics or switching to a vegan diet for your health? Tell us about it in the comments.
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.Fermented food = rotten foodWe get all the probiotics we need from fresh raw foods.Fermented foods were invented as a storable emergency back-up in areas of the world in which nothing would grow for extended time periods.The consumption of fermented food reduces health and vitality, and anybody who says something else is false.you are a moron.Word.you know, you might be right! I like your thought on that.