Vitamin B-12 is a lot like a key, opening up doorways that lead to an array of metabolic, cellular processes. Like a key, vitamin B-12 is unique among all other vitamins in both structure and function. Plants, animals, and fungi do not create it, unlike most dietary nutrients. While  can create B-12, it is unproven as to whether or not the production is adequate. Without this important nutrient, cellular function would cease, and energy would plummet. Considering that B-12 contributes to the production of ATP, many people with low energy levels will often get vitamin B-12 injections. Vitamin B-12 deficiency is common among both vegans and meat eaters alike, and more people today are reaching for supplementation.This essential nutrient, mostly available from animal sources, protects nerve and brain cells from free radical damage. B-12 has also been shown to reduce pain associated with neuropathy. The vitamin contributes to the creation of healthy DNA and RNA (the human body’s genetic material). It also works with other B vitamins to form red blood cells, support immune system health, improve mood, protect the , and maintain overall energy levels.The only natural sources of B-12 are animal foods. This includes organ meats (liver and kidney), eggs, beef, pork, seafood, and dairy products. These foods, however, , so supplementation with a vegan B-12 supplement is often advised for most people. While vegetarians can get vitamin B-12 through dairy, vegans need to supplement so as not to become deficient. Early symptoms of B-12 deficiency include fatigue, digestive issues, nausea, and loss of menstruation. Advanced symptoms include nerve pain, mental health disorders, infertility, impaired immune function, and anemia.Everyone should understand the importance of getting enough B-12 in the diet, something that is usually easier said than done. Some estimates show up to 40% of the US population suffer from some form of . That’s almost half of the population! Knowing the four different types of B-12 will allow you to choose the right one for you.This is the most active form in the human body. It converts homocysteine into methionine, which helps protect the cardiovascular system. Methylcobalamin also offers overall protection to the nervous system. This B-12 form can also cross the blood-brain barrier–without assistance–to protect brain cells. It contributes essential methyl groups needed for detoxification and to start the body’s biochemical reactions.This synthetic version of vitamin B-12 is created in a lab, which makes it the cheapest supplement option. It offers the most stable form of B-12, although it does so through the presence of a cyanide molecule. While the amount of cyanide is not dangerous, it does require the body to expend energy to convert and remove it.Bacteria naturally creates , making it the main type found in most foods. It easily converts into methylcobalamin in the body. Hydroxocobalamin is commonly used via injection as a treatment for B-12 deficiency as well as a treatment for cyanide poisoning.The energy formation that occurs during the Citric Acid cycle requires this form of B-12. Although naturally occurring, it is the least stable of the four types of B-12 outside the human body and does not translate well into a tablet-based supplement. It can be difficult to find this one in supplement form, although some supplements, like Vegansafe™, have been able to stabilize it.It’s conservatively estimated that at least 40% of Americans have trouble absorbing B-12. Whereas the human body is able to easily absorb most other vitamins, B-12 absorption is especially reliant on digestive health.Your stomach produces, or at least is supposed to produce, a protein to help with B-12 absorption; that protein is called intrinsic factor. Not having enough intrinsic factor is the most common reason for not absorbing enough B-12.There are a few reasons a person might not have enough intrinsic factor—surgery, gastritis, consuming food preservatives like MSG, exposure to mercury, intestinal ailments like leaky gut, gluten sensitivity, pernicious anemia, and weak stomach acid. Sometimes your body just doesn’t produce enough. Regardless, without intrinsic factor, it’s hard for your body to absorb the B-12 it needs, and B-12 deficiency becomes a real risk.Because of the inherent potential for B-12 absorption issues, there’s absolutely no reason to mess around with anything other than the most absorbable types of B-12. According to the National Institute of Health, a combination of methylcobalamin and adenosylcobalamin is the most absorbable and bioavailable supplemental B-12 and superior to formulations that only contain cobalamin or hydroxocobalamin.When it comes to supplementing with vitamin B-12, methylcobalamin offers the best option. Like hydroxocobalamin and adenosylcobalamin, it contains molecules the body can use, as opposed to cyanocobalamin which takes a methyl group and forces the liver to dispose of the cyanide molecule. This makes methylcobalamin ideal for anyone looking to take B-12 for a .The good news is that all forms of B-12 have no known adverse side effects. For anyone with a B-12 deficiency, or for those who have adopted vegan diets, I recommend  as a highly-bioavailable and vegan-friendly option.Do you take B-12 supplements? Which one? Share your comments with us below!Everything You Need to Know About Vitamin B-12Length: 50 minutes
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.What about people who have the MTHFR gene defect?  What form of B-12 would be best for them?The MTHFR gene makes someone less able to methylate B12
or convert cyanocobalamin to methylcobalamin. For those folks, methyl B12, aka methylcobalamin is good choice.It really depends on a lot of factors including other gene synapses in the methylation cycle. Methylcobalmin was causing me to over methylated which isn’t great for you either. My naturopath who has focused greatly on methylation in her practice, has placed me on hydroxocobalmin and I’m no longer getting the anxiety and other side effects of over methylating. I accidentally bought  Cyanocobalamin.  The bottle looks exactly like the Methylcobalmin in the brand I bought last.  Unfortunately, I took my first dose before discovering my mistake.  It is 5000 mcg.  My question is; is there enough risk in taking this formula to warrant tossing this bottle? Money’s not so much of a concern. I’m just a very conservative person and hate waste.  I’m healthy and active.  Not bad, just not as good.Thanks Thomas. I couldn’t get past the word cyanide so I went out and found some Methylcobalamin. I will keep the Cyanocobalamin for backup when I forget to rebuy.  I would be more comfortable with an occasional dose than 40 consecutive.  My poor liver doesn’t need additional work. Dr. Group, I trust you and appreciate the information and supplements you share. B 12 is on board for the recovery of neuropathy.what brand do you take?  (the hydroxy that worked best for me went out of business)That’s actually not true, either.  Not every MTHFR mutation is created equally.  You can easily over methylate with certain mutations.Thank you, as I am so tired of folks who believe one size fits all.  Vegan didn’t work for me, as I just wasn’t converting properly.  My homocysteine was off the charts.  I went back to my tribe’s roots (mine is way more Paleo/Primal like), and my methylation cycle is spot on with some extra l-methylfolate.  Most folks I know with my particular mutation, plus some other similar methylation cycle mutations, do significantly better switching.Hi, Swampmom. Yes, that’s correct; not all MTHFR mutations are the same. Although VeganSafe B-12 has worked for a lot of our customers, we still strongly suggest talking to your healthcare provided to discern the best form of B-12 for you, especially if you have a MTHFR gene mutation.I take Garden of Life’s vegan B-12 ( Methylcobalamin) spray daily (500mcg). I take their B-complex  tablet when I feel I need a boost of energy; that has the same type of B-12 (133mcg). I believe their prenatal vit I take daily has as well.