    , or HFCS for short, is a sweetener commonly used in processed foods. It’s included in many foods that one would least suspect, like bread, crackers, pasta sauces, and even pickles. Groups like the Corn Refiner’s Association and companies whose products contain high fructose corn syrup continue to market it as a safe, almost “natural” product. The truth, however, is that studies have shown serious health issues arise from consuming this stuff, including kidney stones.    Recent research shows that  are more likely to occur in men, women, and even children who consume HFCS; kidney stones that would otherwise be preventable. Here are 5 facts you need to know to protect yourself and your loved ones against HFCS-induced kidney stone formation.    Don’t be fooled by industry-fueled marketing campaigns — fructose isn’t good stuff and consuming it increases your risk of developing kidney stones. The National Kidney Foundation warns that, “eating too much fructose correlates with increasing the risk of developing a kidney stone.”  What’s more, a study evaluating data from over 200,000 people determined those who consumed the most refined fructose had a much greater chance of .  Only the refined fructose showed the correlation, with the non-fructose carbohydrates showing no relation to kidney stones.Keeping hydrated is an important part of avoiding kidney stones. But, soda tainted with high fructose corn syrup is a poor choice and drinking it offers virtually no benefit. In fact, a study from Harvard found that people who regularly drank soda had a 33% greater risk of kidney stones; results backed up by other studies as well.   Avoiding soda is an easy way to help .    Oxalate stones are a type of kidney stones that some individuals are naturally predisposed to developing. Their bodies convert fructose into oxalate at a faster rate. This increases the amount of oxalate in the blood, which can mix with calcium in the kidneys to form stones. I wouldn’t call it an allergy to HFCS but it’s along those lines.Manufactured fructose increases the amount of uric acid excreted in urine; natural fructose from fruit does not.  High levels of uric acid, or hyperuricemia, encourage kidney stone formation and gout. Researchers have specifically noted elevated levels of uric acid caused by HFCS have been directly linked to metabolic syndrome, a condition identified by obesity, heart disease, high blood pressure, insulin resistance, and renal failure.    and sodas containing HFCS, corn syrup, and other artificial sweeteners to possibly reduce risk.    As unbelievable as it sounds, it’s completely true. More and more young children, and I mean under the age of 5, are developing kidney stones. Despite the increasing number of children suffering from this condition, researchers only acknowledge the modern diet of highly processed foods as the main contributing factor.  However, parents and doctors both report that when HFCS is removed from the diet, the kidney stones go away.Among the best methods for discouraging kidney stones are drinking , watching your calcium intake, and reducing your intake of salt, protein, and oxalate-rich foods. These are all worthwhile steps and one additional prudent action would be to eliminate HFCS, corn syrup, and other manufactured chemical additives from your diet. The Corn Refiners Association may not want you to hear it, but the science supports it.Have you had kidney stones? Did eliminating HFCS from your diet help? We want to hear from you! Share your thoughts and comments below.
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.Ah, Kidney stones. My dad had them, my brother has them and in 2013 I was hospitalized with sepis caused by a kidney stone that was lodged in the tube outside of my kidney. Awful experience.  It was a year later that my arthritis doctor discovered my body was producing too much calcium, which in turn could be the reason I developed arthritis and kidney stones.  He discovered that I had a small tumor on one of my parathyroids. Too bad my kidney doctor did not discover this sooner. I was in surgery 8 hours to remove this tumor – long story -. Reason I am writing is to make others aware of a Parathyroid Tumor – it causes your body to produce too much calcium.  If you have kidney stones, get your blood check for high calcium level and if that’s the case, have them check for this little tiny nasty tumor.  Just a suggestion.Great information, thanks for sharing.I’m under the impression that kidney stones are caused by the lack of calcium, not because you have too much calcium.  Avoid Md’s, live longer.I passed 4 kidney stones n a month. I stopped eating anything which is high in oxalate, like spinach. I now drink lots of water with lemon juice in it. I also take a magnesium pill everyday and I drink milk with every meal. My kidney stones have stopped so I guess what I’m doing is working. I never eat out or I haven’t drank soda for years. I stopped using extra sugar and salt also. I read a lot on kidney stones and I am trying anything I think will help. So far so good.  I never want them again.  I am not overweight nor do I have any illness. I am 75.