If you’re seeking enlightenment through meditation, or perhaps you’re just looking to obtain a good night’s rest, you need a healthy . Often referred to as the third eye, this small, pinecone-shaped endocrine organ located in the brain secretes and regulates melatonin, the hormone that regulates your circadian rhythms (your sleep-wake cycle) and certain sex hormones. Calcification is an issue that occurs to everyone, but it’s increased in individuals that eat a poor diet. The problem is that overexposure to  and phosphorus destabilizes your body’s mineral balance. This causes your pineal gland to calcify quickly. Nearly half of Americans experience pineal calcification by the age of 18! This disrupts your natural rhythms and hormones. The best answer is to eliminate junk foods and limit your fluoride exposure. You need to get enough raw, healthy foods to help decalcify and support the pineal gland. Try these 5 foods for the best pineal gland health.Chlorella, spirulina, and wheatgrass are great foods packed with vitamins, minerals, and antioxidants. These and other chlorophyll-dense  remove metal toxins that build up in organs, increase oxygen levels, repair damaged tissue, and boost your immune system. The ability to remove toxic metals from organs aids the body in removing metal buildup. Plus, by boosting oxygen and immune function, it may help your body reverse pineal gland calcification. Fluoride from your tap water settles into the pineal gland.  is essential to every organ of the body, but modern iodine deficiencies leave room for iodine’s elemental cousin, fluoride, to take its place. The human body has no use for fluoride so the body isolates it in a calcium husk. Increase your iodine intake and you’ll reduce the effect of fluoride on all of your organs. You can get it from organic dietary sources like spinach, broccoli, seaweed, and fish. You can also supplement with iodine, although I recommend nascent iodine for the best results.  is Global Healing Center’s premium-quality, deep-earth sourced nascent iodine supplement. It helps support thyroid health, the immune system, and the pineal gland.Research supports oregano oil as a powerful tool against microbes and other harmful organisms.  By supporting immune function, your body will more successfully remove harmful organisms before it can attack tissue like the pineal gland. This reduces the chance of gland calcification. Plus,  cleanses your system so you’ll enjoy better health.Buy raw  as it contains malic acid. This chemical compound gives vinegar its sour taste and also acts as a metal detoxifier. Malic acid is well known for its ability to remove aluminum from the human body.  Additional health benefits include dissolving kidney stones, relieving gout, lowering blood pressure, and balancing glucose levels. The easiest way to take raw apple cider vinegar is to mix a cup of water with a tablespoon or two of the vinegar and raw honey., characterized by their deep, dark red color, contain boron. This element helps balance calcium intake and remove metals and other compounds, like fluoride. Beets are also loaded with B vitamins to help sustain energy and encourage cellular health.To restore your pineal gland, you first need to eliminate sources of fluoride and cut out junk foods, especially soda. If you don’t change this part of your diet, you won’t gain any ground by eating these five foods. Other foods like , garlic, lemon juice, and coconut oil may help you detox. It also may be worth considering a full body detox to reduce your body’s acidity and further cleanse metals and toxins.
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.Great article, thanks. I have some questions;
1. Is it OK to take the apple cider vinegar with hot water (and honey)? Or does it need to be cold water?
2. This will be difficult to answer but what are your thoughts regarding iodine suppliments and hashimoto thyroiditis? I was taking your iodine supplement for a while. I had my thyroid tested. The hormone levels were normal but I have thyroid antibodies which apparently may be an indication of hashimoto.
I’m visiting a thyroid speciliast in Feb to find out for sure but I’m
interested in your opinion if taking too much iodine can cause hashimoto’s?Warm water but don’t get it so hot you risk killing the beneficial bacteria.Hashimoto’s… that’s a special situation that needs expert guidance and monitoring. Best to avoid iodine and other supplements until you get evaluated by someone with a lot of experience dealing with it and get on a plan.Yes yes yes.I’m 58..from the dc beltway.shocked at water system facts.the place is a mk ultra toxic hellhole..I knew in 1978 when I returned ” something is in the Damn water” making PEOPLE insane..crazed!!I’ve done x2 for yr..also garlic..coconut and olive oil..I’ve lost 70 lbs..NO DIET FOOD EVER.ITS FOID!..I’m fight roundup poisoning now too as I live in the country.delaware is toxic too.!The Dr grupe..you and Alex gave me a New career and I’m on track at 58 y/ old!The Everyman show!Don’t drink your tap water. The fluoride will calcify your pineal gland. Drink ionized water with a high Ph level.Avoid the pink salt, it is full of fluoride.taking melatonin 1mg to 5mg ,exposure to sun light during the day  and eating a plant base organic diet .How do you know?Not all fluoride is the same. There is calcium fluoride and potassium fluoride. The former is found in nature. Specifically teas and spring water. The latter is the synthetic version found in toothpaste and tap water. Don’t fear the former, as it doesn’t have the same effects. Keep drinking tea and using Himalayan salt, for it contains an abundance of trace minerals not found in our diets.Drinking reverse osmosis water with a mineral filter is ideal.