    Whether you consume tea, , sodas, energy drinks, or chocolate, you’re consuming some form of caffeine. This post is not meant to demonize caffeine altogether; in fact, at small amounts, caffeine has certain health benefits. It’s the excess use of caffeine that is an issue, as this compound can be addictive. Caffeine doesn’t even provide true energy—it is merely a stimulant. Still, there are many who rely on it every day to get them going. Are you one those people?        Caffeine affects the body in a number of ways. Caffeine may promote dehydration and disrupt normal digestion. Additionally, caffeine is addictive and at the root of caffeine addiction is a physiological dependency that forms within the brain. Here is a deeper look at a few of the side effects that accompany caffeine.Caffeine suppresses a chemical called adenosine, which is secreted by the brain to relax the body. Suppression of this compound by caffeine affects the body by making it feel a tense surge of . While this surge of energy is truly stimulating, the threshold of stimulation continues to rise, making the brain require increasing levels of caffeine to simulate the same effect. This creates dependency on users who require caffeine on a daily basis to get moving.    Another negative effect of caffeine is dehydration. Caffeine acts as a diuretic, which may be a benefit to individuals dealing with bloating. For others, however, caffeinated drinks are among the biggest contributors to dehydration—despite a high volume of liquid consumption with these beverages. Dehydrated cells have difficulty absorbing nutrients, and they also have problems eliminating waste.        Large amounts of caffeine can lead to adrenal exhaustion precipitated by the “rush” that it creates in the body. Adrenal exhaustion is particularly pronounced in children, who are now consuming more caffeine than ever before thanks to soda machines in public schools. The common symptoms of adrenal burnout include irritability, , trouble sleeping, hunger fluctuations, mood swings, and lethargy.        Perhaps the most negative impact caffeine has on the body occurs in the . It blocks the absorption of magnesium, a key mineral that is essential to the colon’s regulation of normal, healthy bowel movements. Coffee itself compounds the problem by acting as a laxative, causing the bowels to move prior to the absorption of water and mineral nutrients. This reinforces body dehydration and malnourishment. Coffee also increases stomach acid levels, and higher acid levels can cause permanent damage to the intestinal lining.        A better way to counter caffeine’s effects is to reduce your intake of coffee and soda and replace them with organic white or  (which contains minimal caffeine), organic fruit juice, or distilled water. Supplements that help cleanse the colon, rehydrate cells, and stimulate digestive enzymes are also recommended.    Have you given up caffeine? What effects have you noticed? What tips can you offer? Leave a comment below and share your thoughts with us.
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.As extensive scientific analysis and safe consumption over centuries make clear, caffeine is safe. What’s more, contrary to this article, a growing body of research continues to demonstrate the potential health benefits of coffee and caffeine. Bottom line: consumers should have every confidence in enjoying coffee and other caffeinated products. Of course, just as with other ingredients and sources of calories, moderation is a good rule of thumb. – American Beverage AssociationAndrew Saul of “Doctor Yourself”(dot)com has extensive info on negative caffeine effects. PubMed states 3-5 cups per day keeps Alzsheimers away. I buy green beans & light roast myself. Most retailed coffee is stale,oxidized.Fresh roast is good for 7-10 days. Starbucks pulls their coffee after 1-yr.,Peets in 90 days.Both are oxidized especially with sub retailers who do not inspect dates. Roasts beyond medium are burned & oxidized. The oils become destroyed. Green tea is good depending on origins.China & India have heavy metal problems with most of their teas & herbs.There are many substitutes for coffee.Essentially find the source of needing the stimulant. Tyrosine,lipoic acid,TMG,etc. are good stimulants as are nootropics. Juicing sprouts of wheat,& legumes are excellent energizers. The list is endless,do your research when you have time between raising a family,working 3-jobs,battling the NWO & IRS. Humor is best for the immune system & very inexpensive.=DAnd American Beverage Association is trying to save it’s existence by trying to prove that soft drinks are okay.And   “scientific”   might be a false reality sold to us by Industry.
 What really counts is a “biological”  analysis.  And it would show lots of negatives.  Coffee was considered unsafe in Europe and wasn’t accepted until 1800s with advent of low priced sugar and prolific push by  media.I have given up coffee a few times and always go back to it because I like the taste.. There are also way too many temptations around! Coffee shops and so on, everyone at work also drinks coffee.
I get withdrawal symptoms and headaches, also flue like symptoms in the first week. It usually takes 1 to 2 weeks for the withdrawal symptoms to subside.
I would recommend paracetamol for the headaches, and maybe try to switch to Vital Greens instead.I used to drink coffee 1 to 2 cup and feeling very sluggish,  tired all the times.  One time i was sick and  vomited whole day then the addition of coffee totally gone. No more tired and sluggish feeling sound as get back to normal life.  I believed coffee is harmful to us either in our blood flow or some where definitely because i drink again the same kind of fatigue came back.I love coffee, beer and Coke Cola drinks but those are things of the past.  Very difficult to let them go but now I feel better, have more energy and get sick less.  Everybody’s health is different.  So I just off in that group that it effects me. Listen to your Body and obey it!!!