Olive oil has received well-deserved attention over the last 10-15 years. This is the main ingredient that plays an important role in the Mediterranean diet. For years, studies have shown people who consume this type of diet live longer and enjoy a better quality of life. Olive oil is a lot more than just a health food. In fact, it can be used for , managing hair, and as a natural sunscreen.     is a fantastic ingredient that can be added to your salads and roasted vegetables. Aside from consuming olive oil to receive its benefits, you can use it in other ways and reap similar, if not greater, rewards. Here are 8 amazing benefits of olive oil, many of which may surprise you.Olive oil has nutrients that support the heart and brain, and the  in olive oil make blood flow easier. The antioxidants found in the oil protect against aging by reducing damage from free radicals and oxidative stress.  Populations who consume the highest amounts of olive oil enjoy low rates of coronary heart disease.  Olive oil is loaded with vitamins and essential fatty acids involved in speeding the healing of burns.   The Amish are often credited for creating a natural method for reducing burns with olive oil that’s as effective as conventional treatments,  and they’re not alone. The Hatay of middle Turkey use a mixture featuring olive oil to ease the severity of burns.  The olive oil supplies essential nutrients to the injured skin and discourages harmful organisms from infecting the wound.Although olive oil aids skin recovery when applied to wounds like burns, eating olive oil or foods featuring olive oil also improves wound healing time.  Regular consumption of olive oil lowers  and heals the body from the inside out.  Your skin and hair shine and glow following topical application of natural products like olive oil. It’s used in organic cosmetics, and it works as a topical therapy to alleviate eczema and skin ailments of the lower body.    and is commonly used to relieve psoriasis. Men and women around the world use it to  and skin young and healthy.  If there’s a downside to pregnancy, it’s the stretch marks. In one study, olive oil reduced scarring from severe stretch marks following pregnancy.  The topical as well as the internal use of olive oil may provide this benefit.Ancient Greek athletes prized olive oil for the way it soothed and protected their skin and relaxed their muscles. It was so revered that Athenian sponsors made it freely available to all participants in their sporting events. The ancient Greeks recognized the therapeutic value of olive oil to reduce muscle fatigue, improve the strength and flexibility of the skin, and prevent sports related injuries.   Next time you go to the beach,  and use olive oil for protection from the sun. It’s what people around the world have done for thousands of years. Recent studies support this traditional use as olive oil has a higher SPF than other natural oils. Rubbing a little olive oil on the skin provides essential vitamins and nutrients, keeping the skin nourished and smooth. This could mean fewer wrinkles. Studies have also found consuming olive oil regularly affects the overall health of the skin, possibly protecting against aging and wrinkles.   Ozonated olive oil combines the natural healing and nourishing benefits of olive oil and oxygen. Study after study shows oxygen cleanses wounds and encourages faster healing.  Researchers have even noted it promotes healthy teeth and gums when taken orally.  This combination of olive oil and oxygen in  delivers powerful therapeutic healing where it’s needed most.    Do you use olive oil regularly? How has it worked for you? Share your experiences with us below!
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.Olive oil doesn’t do anything that coconut oil can’t do better.