  To continue our series on probiotics, I’m going to introduce you to another important strain–. As with other probiotics, this strain supports the digestive system and encourages healthy . This strain, when combined with other beneficial strains of bacteria, may support overall health and wellbeing.  To get a better handle on the benefits of this powerful probiotic, let’s get into the research.       works to maintain a balance of good and bad bacteria and does so while helping out with digestion and optimizing levels of vitamins and minerals. In fact,  can actually synthesize some nutrients, like L-lysine.  Animal models show  may be helpful in reducing bacterial translocation, a benefit dependent on bacterial adhesion to the intestinal wall. Antibiotics are becoming an increasingly common contributor to hospital-acquired infections, and research shows  may be of help. Because antibiotics deplete natural gut flora, it opens the way for spore-forming bacteria to infect and proliferate. One study has shown supplementation with  may reduce the incidence of Clostridium difficile-associated disease in hospitalized patients following antibiotic administration.  In addition to this benefit,  may also reduce gastrointestinal side effects commonly associated with antibiotics.  Still, others note many of the same benefits as with  probiotics: decreased colorectal cancer risk is a big one.   One of the best way to receive  regularly is to choose a supplement that includes the strain in combination with many others. But whether you get your probiotics through diet or a top-quality supplement, don’t forget the . These are essentially the food sources for probiotics and could also go a long way in boosting health. Many prebiotics can be found in garlic, chicory root, and pure inulin. A probiotic supplement that contains prebiotics as well as probiotics, like , could be a helpful addition to your life.    Are you ready to make a change for the better? How will you get your prebiotics and probiotics? Share your thoughts in the comments below.
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.