Homer once described olive oil as ‘liquid gold,’ a term that still resonates with many. Fortunately, we do not have to fight wars over olive oil anymore as it is abundantly produced in many parts of the world and readily available. We all know that  is one of the healthiest vegetable oils, along with coconut oil. Not only can you consume this nutritious food and receive numerous benefits, you can also use it to boost the nutrient value of your beauty products.Adding olive oil to your beauty routine may provide immense benefits to your skin, hair, and nails. Here are some of the olive oil skin benefits you may find surprising.Olive oil contains three major antioxidants: vitamin E, polyphenols, and phytosterols. , when topically applied, may help protect the skin from premature skin aging. Vitamin E partly accounts for the anti-aging benefits of olive oil because it helps restore skin smoothness and protects against ultraviolet light.  Hydroxytyrosol, a rather rare compound found in olive oil, also prevents free radical damage to the skin. Unlike commercial moisturizers that can clog pores and exacerbate current skin conditions, olive oil penetrates deeply into the skin while providing a cleansing effect. Try using organic olive oil at night as a substitute for your regular moisturizer. Apply a teaspoon of the oil to the face and neck. Gently pat the skin with a paper towel to wipe away any excess oil.Another one of olive oil’s benefits for skin is its usefulness in exfoliating applications. A common exfoliating method using olive oil is to mix 1 tablespoon of the oil with natural sea salt, rubbing this mixture over the skin. The mild abrasive qualities of the sea salt, combined with the deep, penetrating action of the oil, will remove dead skin cells and leave the epidermis looking renewed and glowing.Olive oil is also used for nail and cuticle care, and many women use it as an eye makeup remover. Further applications include using it as an ingredient in homemade facial masks. One other interesting application for both men and women is the substitution of olive oil for shaving cream. Many men have abandoned shaving cream once they discovered how close a shave they can get with olive oil. Men and women alike have also found its refreshing qualities make it an excellent aftershave.Because of the many skin benefits olive oil provides, organic skin care products often use it as a key, active ingredient. Olive oil creams, cosmetics, and body lotions are more popular than ever for self-administered skin care and more people are finding that it works better than commercial moisturizers. For these reasons, I developed . O2-zap is an innovative skin care product that harnesses the power of pure oxygen and olive oil to soothe, protect, and refresh your skin. Do you use olive oil in your skin care routine? What tips or suggestions do you have? Please share with us in the comments!
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.Based on a review of records from scholarly journals published
in the April Journal of Food Science,, the top seven
adulterated ingredients in the database are olive oil, milk, honey,
saffron, orange juice, coffee, and apple juice.That’s good information to know and is very compelling reason to purchase quality over quantity. Do you have a link to this information?And your recommendation on Olive Oil is?Cold pressed and organic. We also produce O2-Zap if you’re after the added benefits of an ozonated olive oil.Ive been using Olive Oil with Baking soda for a while and it gives good result.
My skin is much smootherIf using olive oil on the face it must be extra virgin or it can cause breakouts especially for people suffering from acne. Unfortunately there is an epidemic of companies even organic ones lying about  being extra virgin. The California olive oil Council now test oils for their purity. A list of those who failed or passed is available online or look for the COOC label on certified olive oils.I’ve been following Dr. McDougall and other doctors and they say NO OIL. Not even olive oil. They say if you want olive oil…eat an olive. It is because olive oil is not a whole food. I don’t see you recommending it internally so I guess externally is okay if used for skincareHello I have brown spot of acne I started olive oil for this problem please suggest it would be better? I use a combination of oils but the oil I am most interested in is black seed oil. What benefits/drawbacks does it have?It sure? How many year that you use it? Can you explain me more clearly, i want to use too. You use it for face also?
My E-mail : Whoever is saying to avoid consuming olive oil internally either is crazy or is misleading the public for his own reasons…Greeks and Italians have been consuming olive oil for ages because they know olive oil’s nutritional and therapeutic powers. This is the most stupidest thing I have everh heard..But then again, what else would you hear from clueless westerners…..lolOlive oil has been a good friend to us for a very long time. We use olive oil, raw honey, apple cider vinegar mix for facial cleanser/moisturizer. This mixture is also good for healing excema and other skin issues. We combine 3 tablespoons raw honey, 2 teaspoons olive oil and 1/2 teaspoon apple cider vinegar. After working into skin in circular motion leave on face as a mask for 15 to 30 minutes then rinse with warm water.Olive oil and DE also make’s an excellent exfoliant/moisturizer.I love using Olive Oil and many Oils for that matter.  Years ago I suffered horribly from rheumatoid Arthritis and still I do have my flare ups but for many years now, I’ve not had to use any medication.  I read, learn and try and whatever works for me with the elimination of pain is grand.  I use Olive Oil daily, rubbing it on my body from head to toe.  I use it in cooking and I also use the grape seed oil as well.  I love a small bowl of Greek coconut yogurt with one tablespoon of Olive Oil mixed in it and I try to have that every morning.  I’ve been using Olive Oil for many years and have now reached my, shall we say golden years and have no intention of stopping the use of  Oil and especially Olive Oil and Coconut Oil inside and out.  When I could barely walk after being diagnosed with Rheumatoid Arthritis  a gentleman introduced me to Oils and I thank God for him everyday.  By the way, I’m old and am often guessed many years younger and even asked out by younger gents but clearly I wouldn’t know what to do with them…Smiling large…..I’m a westerner Odysseia and I agree wholeheartedly with you, so guess what we’re not all clueless…..Months ago I’ve started using a Turmeric and Gram flour mask on my face once a week for my acne scars on my face. I’ve noticed results right away, and it only gets better after each use. It really fades away any marks or spots on your face. It has toned down my redness tremendously. I mix a tablespoon of turmeric powder, and a tablespoon of gram flour (also called garbanzo bean flour or besan), mix it with water or milk. I do it only once a week, but it’s safe enough to do as often as you like. Google turmeric powder and you’ll see tons of great reviews. I’m fair skinned and it does leave a yellowish tint on my face, but it will fade away. I also use olive oil as a moisture, and once I put that on my face, it helps it fade away even faster. I usually do it before bedtime and the yellow tint is gone well before I wake up.I recently was informed that Olive oil helps remove the tough residue of makeup . It not only removes it from the surface, but it also penetrates deep into your pores preventing any clogging. It also keeps my skin moisturized & smooth . I simply rub the Olive oil onto my face, massaging it in with my  finger tips for 30 seconds , then place a hot towel over my face, & pat my face with a dry towel to remove any excess oil. It’s a great treatment & I highly recommend for women(rather you wear make up or not) & men. Especially if you want to look younger as you get older. It has become my nightly routine & I wake up feeling refreshed ! Do you recommend reg., vs. Extra Virgin olive oil?I  clean and moisturize daily. Once or twice a month I sleep with it in my hair. Leaves mine smooth and soft after shampoo.  I wear it on the ends of my long hair to stop the frizzies and protect it.  Olive oil is excellent for soft skini am also using itand it gives smooth skin…but i wanna ask a question. IS OLIVE OIL WILL ENHANCE THE GROWTH OF MY FACIAL HAIR????? as i have little facial hair. plz plz clear ma this phobia with reason. i ll be much thankfulthe oil comes from the seeds, would you like to eat the seed? but if you eat the whole seed you absorb nothing, you have to crush it and extract the oil. lolI have a friend that is a model and she told me she uses olive oil as make-up remover.  I have never used an make-up remover product before always soap/ facial cleanser and water but I have to say HOLY COW!!!!  I have never had make-up come off more completely.  Eye make-up too.  I washed my face after that and there weren’t any smears of make-up on the wash cloth or left over mascara smudges under my eyes.  I always use Olive Oil for cooking and baking but will not be an avid user for make-up remover and might even make it my regular moisturizer as well after reading this article.Don’t let this distract you from the fact that the Italian mafia has taken control of the Italian olive market and thus, producing counterfeit olive oil that is passed off as ‘extra virgin’ in the states……..I love using olive oil for my skin after showers.  I mix 1/3 castor oil and 2/3 olive oil into a container with a very narrow spout.  Then use very sparingly as a moisturizer for my face and body.  It feels great and absorbs right into the skin.  Too bad I only discovered this a few years ago but glad that I did!