Fermented food has made a comeback in recent years, partially thanks to the popularization of Weston A. Price teachings. Fermented foods like sauerkraut and kimchi aren’t considered to be the most appealing types of food; however, research exploring these and other fermented products on gut, brain, and body health has revitalized public interest. The fermentation process encourages essential bacteria such as Lactobacilli and Bifidobacteria to flourish. This makes fermentation a , since many fermented foods are plant based. Vegetables are submerged in a salty brine during preparation to kill off dangerous, pathogenic bacteria. The good bacteria break down lactose and other sugars and starches in the food, making digestion easier. And once they reach your gut, they continue to help break down food and keep out bad guys like E. coli and C. difficile. When it comes to fermented foods, your options aren’t limited to sauerkraut or fermented soy. There are other fantastic options that are considered “fermented,” including tea, yogurt, and various vegetables. Here are 9 fermented foods you should include in your gut.Yogurt has many benefits, mostly due to its rich probiotic content. Brands of yogurt that contain  may support digestion, and some research indicates it could even benefit the skin. Raw, unpasteurized yogurt is ideal if you can handle dairy. Personally, I tend to skip dairy altogether, but you can find dairy-free yogurt options at many stores these days, some of which are made from coconut and almond milk. Be sure you’re choosing yogurt that contains live active cultures, and try to choose plain, full-fat versions in order to avoid sugar. Yogurt that contains sugar can be counterproductive, as sugars feed pathogenic bacteria and contribute to sugar overload.Natto is prepared with soybeans and is fermented so it forms the beneficial bacteria Bacillus. It’s an excellent source of calcium, iron, dietary fiber, and vitamin K2. You may not have heard a lot about it, but K2 is essential for heart health as it keeps calcium out of your arteries and gets it to your bones where it’s needed. Natto also contains , a powerful anti-clotting agent that protects your heart and brain and lowers your blood pressure.Kefir is a bit like yogurt, except that it’s more of a drinkable consistency. Researchers report kefir may reduce irritation in the intestines, preventing toxins and other pathogens from getting into the blood. If you’re choosing to drink dairy kefir, make sure it’s organic and isn’t loaded with refined sugar. There are options for making your own dairy-free water kefir, and many health food companies online sell kefir grains specifically for this purpose. You can also .Made from tea, clean water, sugar, yeast, and bacteria,  has become popular recently for its probiotic qualities. Its fizzy bite is also popular among those used to drinking soda. Research finds this fermented tea fights off E. coli and Staph bacteria in the digestive tract, possibly protecting against illness and aiding digestion.Traditional sauerkraut preparation uses water, salt, and cabbage, and very little heat is applied to the final product in order to prevent killing off beneficial microbes. The sour taste comes from lacto-fermentation, or the breakdown of lactose by the probiotic bacteria native to the cabbage. A serving gives you a powerful dose of healthy probiotics that aid digestion, and research has found raw sauerkraut prevents cancer cells from forming. Be sure to purchase raw sauerkraut, or better yet, make it yourself with organic cabbage and Himalayan salt.This spicy Asian fermented cabbage, similar to sauerkraut, provides you with loads of probiotics. Extensive research indicates it contributes to , lower cholesterol, better thinking, a stronger immune system, healthy skin, and weight loss. Additional research also shows it has anti-oxidative, anti-aging, and immune-supporting properties.This Indonesian ‘cake’ has a nutty flavor and chewy texture, and because of this, it is often used as a replacement for meat in many vegan recipes. Traditionally made from soybeans and a yeast starter, it undergoes controlled fermentation that makes it a great . Tempeh is also a great source of calcium, iron, and magnesium.Raw pickles, much like sauerkraut, are a great introduction to fermented foods. Pickles made by lacto-fermentation are a delicious snack that aid digestion and .Yogurt and fermented dairy play an important role in Indian cuisine. Lassi is made by combining yogurt and milk (or water) and sometimes fruit and spices to create a great probiotic-rich drink. It digests quickly, helps restore friendly gut bacteria, and soothes irritation in the colon. Again, , especially from cows. If you are going to drink lassi, it’s best to find a product using grass-fed, free-range goat milk. Goat milk tends to digest more easily. If you’re vegan, try finding or making lassi with organic coconut or almond milk yogurt.Each of these 9 probiotic foods will help restore balance to your intestinal ecosystem, but they’re not the only way to support digestion. Prebiotics, or foods containing , sustain your current gut bacteria by providing them the foods they need to thrive. Probiotic supplements like , my advanced formula with over 23 probiotic strains with prebiotics, are a great way to support your digestive system.What probiotic foods do you eat? Share your tips and recipes with us!
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.Natto is NOT mashed. Anybody that has actually eaten it would know that. Unfortunately to find a real  yogurt its almost impossible. Many companies create and  produced  just different  milky  products which are very far from the real yogurt and its benefits-  some of  these products could be even  dangerous for the health.
The real yogurt is a unique mixture of LIVE bacteria in a a very specific proportion and only that real yogurt can give  all  the legendary benefits  of the yogurt. This unique formula makes the milk very digestive, as well. In  the countries where that mix of bacteria occur naturally   in the air /Only  one place in the world – The Balkans- Europa / from  thousand years  people  give yogurt to the babies as a first food or instead of the mothers milk, for example>Tempeh… a great source of probiotic bacteria.Tempeh not eaten raw. So it can not be source of any bacteria.Sure thing, Dave.Oh, thank you very match for the link! It is very interesting. But i don’t think that it is the same: tempeh INFLUENCE on intestinal bacteria, but tempeh itself DON’T HAVE any bacteria: bacteria die during cooking heat treatment. So it is very interesting tempeh influence? What is the mechanism?Tempeh can indeed be eaten raw, as in salads.What food promotes a healthy microbiome, cleanses the liver and gut, is high in various nutrients, AND is a good source of protein? Why, beans, of course!  I don’t remember all the science off the top of my head, but beans have the right kind of starch that promote good gut bacteria. Also, although insoluble fiber can be found in lots of fruits, veggies, and whole grains, only beans have lots of soluble fiber, which is essential for eliminating all that toxic bile from your system. Without soluble fiber, all that garbage and the bile it’s carried in will get to the end of the small intestine and circulate right back into your liver where even more waste is added on.  So, to keep the liver from getting backed up with toxic bile and to prevent all that waste from passing through the colon many times over, eat your beans.  It’s weird how all the anatomy and physiology is well-known, but no one seems to make the connection that we therefore regularly need soluble fiber in our diet for good gut (and who knows what else) health.Sorry, I warned against waste traveling through the colon–I meant through the small intestine.  However, 5ish% still gets through the colon even without soluble fiber, so if it’s circulated through the liver many times, accumulating for so long before it eeks into the colon, it’s going to be pretty nasty and could be too toxic for the delicate colon to handle (resulting in colitis, for example).