    Are you eating a diet high in sugar? If so, consider two of many health costs. As you chew on that sugary snack, those empty calories could be increasing your waistline and lead to a  (one thing that could lead to permanent damage).  Sugar is in practically everything these days, from your peanut butter to a loaf of bread. What’s worse, high fructose corn syrup has quickly replaced pure sugar, leading to even further complications. Could cutting sugar out of your life completely be the answer to your health concerns? Well, there’s one thing–it certainly might help.  Reducing or cutting out sugar consumption could do wonders for your lifestyle. Not only could it , but it may also support healthy aging. Here are just 4 reasons you need to get sugar out of your life.With the way many Americans drink sugary beverages, it’s no surprise the latest report suggests sugar is a factor in the –especially when it comes to kids. The Obesity Society estimates Americans consume about 6 to 7 percent of their calories in sugar-sweetened beverages (SSBs).  SSBs are brimming with empty calories, and cutting these out of your diet can only make a change for the better.It’s not just weight gain that’s a possible concern, though; sugar could even add to your risk for .  In a recent study, sugar was linked to changes in blood pressure and in the body’s lipids. This latest finding only adds to evidence that continues to suggest there’s no such thing as a “safe sugar habit.”The latest research even suggests sugar could be as addictive as a drug.   could be a throwback to a distant time when food supplies were scarce, and people weren’t worried about empty calories. They were just eating enough to survive. At the time, our brains might have been wired to overload on carbohydrates, mostly fruit and grains, in order to maintain an energy storage during times of famine. In this day and age, however, finding food isn’t the problem: it’s mindlessly eating sugar.Certainly SSBs could be doing more harm than good to our physical health, but a recent finding even suggests they could be damaging the memories of kids and teens.  Drinking SSBs in excess before adulthood leads to metabolic changes, affecting the “brain’s ability to function normally and remember critical information.” That’s one more reason to cut sugar out of your life!Sugar can be bad news for our bodies, but sugar substitutes aren’t really that much better. The brain perceives  as overly sweet, and this perception can still lead to overeating, just like the kind mentioned in point three.  So we’re back to square one, it seems. With the rising sugar crisis, some have even suggested sugary foods need a warning label. What do you think? Is  a step in the right direction? Tell us in the comments.
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.