, and when it comes to health benefits, nothing can match it. Not only is turmeric one of the most impressive free radical scavengers, it’s also been shown to support brain health, protect cell integrity, and even encourage a balanced mood. New research is showing that turmeric may also play a key role in supporting thyroid health.      If you want to be healthy, your thyroid needs to be healthy. It regulates metabolism and keeps hormonal health in check. To say it’s important is an understatement. unfortunately, everything from , contributing to the current rise of thyroid disorders. Turmeric, according to a recent study, may be one of the most efficient defenses we can use.    According to the study, individuals who consumed turmeric on a regular basis were less likely to suffer from goiter, a common .  Goiter and iodine deficiency are also two symptoms of hypothyroidism, a condition where the thyroid is producing insufficient amounts of thyroid hormone. This leads to weight gain, lethargy, and even depression. Can you see now how important thyroid health is for maintaining a sense of wellbeing? While researchers are unsure as to the cause of the correlation, it could be related to turmeric’s antioxidant, nutritive, and soothing qualities.  The key to turmeric’s success is that it soothes.  Turmeric may soothe irritation in blood vessels, skin, and the brain, and researchers believe this—along with its antioxidant potential—is what supports thyroid health. The thyroid, when it’s irritated by endocrine disruptors of any kind, needs to be soothed before it is repaired, and turmeric may do just that.  The powdered spice is perhaps the most commonly-used turmeric option, typically incorporated into things like curries and soups. It gives a distinct yellow color to foods and adds enormous health benefits with very little bulk. A liquid extract, may provide more benefits as they’re more concentrated and offer a greater punch. I developed a liquid extract of certified organic turmeric root (curcuma longa) . It can be added to smoothies, beverages, or consumed straight without any taste issues.    Do you enjoy turmeric? How do you use it? Please let us know how you enjoy this ancient spice in the comments!
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.thank you dr group and health ranger mike thank God we have a few people who focus on health and facts about vitamins minerals agents to clean the body where can you go and find all the info you need to keep out of the MD doctors’s office by keeping a healthy body?I am a hypothyroid women since 2006 . Dr Edward recommendation about turmeric are worth understanding but for your information I am already a regular user of turmeric in everyday cooking than why I am suffering with hypothyroidism and could not benefited by this amazing spice.
Thanks
ShabanaThere could be other things you are eating that are surpressing your thyroid.