Chaga (Inonotus Obliquus) is a mushroom that typically grows on birch trees in colder climates across the Northern Hemisphere. At first glance, the mushroom doesn’t look very appealing; actually, it doesn’t even looks like a mushroom at all! Appearances can be deceiving, however, as this special mushroom packs a punch when it comes to its health value.Chaga has been consumed for centuries in the East, most typically as tea, where its health benefits are well established. More recently, chaga has been gaining popularity in the West, where its numerous health benefits are now being recognized by many health gurus. Technically, chaga is a highly-concentrated black mass of mycelium that protrudes from birch trees infected with parasitic–but non-toxic–fungus Inonotus Obliquus. The dark, hard and cracked exterior, which often appears like burnt charcoal, is called the sclerotium. The interior has a rusty yellow brown color.The health benefits of Chaga are numerous, many of which can be attributed to its immune-boosting ingredients and antioxidants.  Let’s go through each of the top 6 health benefits:Chaga has an abundance of Beta-D-Glucans which help balance the response of the . This means that chaga helps boosts the immune system when necessary, but slows it down when it’s overactive. This makes chaga a natural Biological Response Modifier (BRM). Research has also shown that chaga activates immune cells responsible for combating cancer initiation.  Research is still ongoing, as more studies are needed to determine chaga’s full role in cancer. Chaga has proven effective in supporting standard cancer approaches, such as chemotherapy, by compensating for the program’s negative side effects. I’m certainly not saying that chaga will ease cancer progression; however, evidence suggests there may be vital compounds in the mushroom that warrant further investigation into its role.Chaga supports the integrity of blood vessels and provides soothing properties in times of irritation. This can be helpful for those suffering from pain, neuropathy, and even diabetes. Due to its immune-boosting properties, chaga has long been used to support gastrointestinal health in Eastern culture. Most ulcers are caused by bacteria such as Helicobacter pylori, so a  can fight off this pathogen. Ulcers may be soothed by the use of chaga, depending on the severity and the patient.Studies have shown that the betulinic acid found in chaga is able to break down LDL cholesterol–bad cholesterol–in the bloodstream. In one study, the chemical characterization and biological activity of extracts of Chaga mushroom were examined and showed high antioxidant and antimicrobial activity. In one study, cells were pretreated with a chaga mushroom extract, then treated with H202 to induce oxidative stress. The pretreated cells displayed less damage than cells that did not receive the chaga extract. A limited amount of studies have been done to learn about the antiviral activity of chaga mushroom. In two recent studies, chaga mushroom showed protective support against harsh skin blemishes.  So what are the ingredients behind chaga that provide all these health benefits? Let’s go through the 6 key ingredients that make chaga so healthy.Chaga contains structural polysaccharides within its chitin walls, which provide energy, , intestinal and liver health, and promote healthy blood sugar levels. It’s also said to improve one’s mood.Beta-D-Glucans are known for their ability to modulate the immune system. Beta-D-Glucans also help with normalizing cholesterol levels and blood sugar.Of the phytosterols present in chaga, 45% is Lanosterol, 25% is Inotodiols and the remaining 30% consists of Ergosterol, Fecosterol, and several others. In vivo and in vitro testing shows a direct effect of both Lanosterol and Inotodiols on cancer cells, with lanosterol imparting a positive effect on viral compounds. Betulin and betulinic acid are powerful therapeutic agents that are currently being researched for their effects on supporting healthy cholesterol levels. In addition to their favorable benefits for maintaining a healthy cholesterol profile, betulin and betulinic acid are also being studied in relation to cancer and viruses. Chaga sclerotium contains massive amounts of the natural black pigment known as melanin, which has  due to the amount of polyphenols it contains. In fact, chaga has the highest ORAC score (the measure of antioxidant potency) of any superfood.SODs are another important antioxidant present in chaga. SOD refers to a group of enzymes called Super Oxide Dismutase. These enzymes play an important role in protecting our body against the destructive effects of uncontrolled oxidation and free radicals. SOD potency is measured by the S-ORAC score. When it comes to health benefits, chaga performs very well when compared with several popular superfoods., vitamins, and antioxidants. The high quantity of quercetin that it contains can help cardiac and respiratory health, in addition to protecting cells from free radical damage. Chaga contains a much higher level of antioxidants that provide the same benefits within the bloodstream.Similar to chaga,  contain high amounts of polysaccharides. Although unlike chaga, the main polysaccharide in goji berries is pectin. In contrast, chaga’s source of polysaccharides comes from chitin, a structural polysaccharide that is very beneficial for human consumption and much harder to source. The typical modern diet includes plenty of pectin and little to no chitin. such as folate and vitamin D. The combination of these nutrients plus lipids promotes lower cholesterol and heart health. The Beta-D-Glucans found within chaga also improve cholesterol levels by preventing cholesterol from being absorbed into the bloodstream during the digestion process.Chaga is not easy to find and people often mistake the mushroom for knots in the tree or burnt patches. You’ll find chaga growing predominantly on birch trees in cold habitats throughout the Northern Hemisphere, including northern parts of Europe, Russia, Korea, Canada, and the U.S. In North America, Chaga is almost exclusively found on birches in the northeast. In particular, it’s most commonly found on paper and yellow birch trees. Paper birch is a common forest tree with a white bark that exfoliates in broad, curling sheets. It’s found at low and high elevations in the northeast of North America. Yellow birch is another common forest tree and usually has a yellow bark that exfoliates as small, curling shreds. Most typically, well developed chaga is found on birch trees older than 40 years and grows in all shapes and sizes on the outside of the birch trees it infects. You’ll typically see it in the form of a dome, cone, and horn with crusty ridges. To learn more about harvesting chaga, check out .The most popular way to consume chaga is by drinking a delicious cup of chaga tea. Below is my favorite simple chaga tea recipe for you to try at home.
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.I keep my chaga hot in a small dip size crock pot. I put 4-5 whole chunks about the size of a large grape in. As the days go by it gets blacker and stronger and I add water each time I take from it. As it gets lighter and lighter I change out the chunks. I do this all winter and sometimes  make ice tea with it in the summer. I live in Maine and when I need some I can usually find it but one large chaga goes a long way.I am doing the same on my cookstove. Have a nice pot going and will keep it going until spring. I am also from Maine, down on the mid coast. There are so many variations of how to make chaga tea. Some say to boil and others say never boil. So how do you know if you are getting the full benefits of the chaga, if there is not any standard?it grows on white birch in northern ontario.Avocados do not contain folic acid which is synthetic. They contain FOLATE.Where did you learn that Chaga is the most powerful antioxidant? I’ve read that hydroxytrosol or glutathione may be.Do you leave the crock pot on all night? How often do you drink it during the day? Have you found the health benefits to be true? We do not like to take medicines for things due to all the dude effects but are getting to the age where things like cholostreol and such are a factor. Do you flavor the tea with cream or maple syrup or honey? Use both methodsWhat is the recommended amount to drink a day, ?1, 2 etc, cups a day?I read online about 3 cups a day is the correct amount to take. I tried 2 at first. Love chaga….but not food…medicine…although we can isolate some chemicals and compare it to chemicals in other foods…but reality is traditional people used in for medicine and very specific issues….other mushrooms are food and have more generalized positive benefits….but me…I don’t like the term super food in general…eating healthy foods from as many different varieties as possible is best…different colors, flavors, cooking ect….will provide all the nutrients we need to be healthy….fresh, local and seasonalYou are so right!!Does the Chaya ? helps with high blood pressure and cholesterol if not what does ?Yeah like I’m going to take advice in an article from the fake doctor from Alex Jones info wars haaaaaaaaaa