  Artificial sweeteners were initially designed to be sugar substitutes and a helpful tool for the battle against the bulge. Unfortunately, the state of obesity in the world has gotten worse, and  are clearly not helping. You can find sugar substitutes in diet sodas, yogurt, and a host of other food products. These artificial sweetener additives mimic the flavor of sugar but offer no useful energy and may in fact be toxic.         There are five dangerous sugar substitutes that are approved for consumer use: saccharin, neotame, acesulfame potassium, , and sucralose. Of the five main artificial sweeteners, sucralose and aspartame are the most pervasive and dangerous substitutes found in products on store shelves today.    This additive is marketed under the name Splenda. Sucralose is basically denatured sucrose. Its preparation involves chlorinating sucrose, chemically changing the structure of the sugar molecules by substituting three chlorine atoms for three hydroxyl groups.  , so why would the FDA allow toxic materials to be used in our food and beverages?    It’s uncertain as to why the FDA approved sucralose knowing the nature of chlorine. You should know too that it was approved even with the pre-approval research revealed possible toxicity of the substance.    There have been no long-range studies of the effects of sucralose. The same thing happened with . As a result of not performing the required epidemiological research, it took years to track the dangerous effects of smoking cigarettes. It’s unfortunate and confusing that the same mistake is repeated even with the initial negative indications and checks and balances that are now in place. If the FDA does not step in and make monitoring and research possible and necessary, then we can’t readily learn the safety of such substances, including food items.    This additive is sold under the names Equal and  and there are thousands of other everyday products that contain aspartame, too. Just to name a few: yogurt, sodas, pudding, tabletop sugar substitutes, chewing gum, bread, etc. For its approval we have to thank the Searle Company for falsifying reports, and unscrupulous attorneys for delaying legal proceedings.  Once the statute of limitations ran out and the product was once again up for review, many discrepancies came to light between reported versus actual findings.    Consumers lodge complaints about NutraSweet, to the tune of “80% of all complaints about food additives,” but Betty Martini reported that the FDA has yet to move on any of them. In spite of this inaction by the FDA, there are indications that this sweetener is toxic. According to Ms. Martini, in a report from Flying Safety, an official United States Air Force publication, US Air Force pilots were warned not to consume Aspartame in any amounts at all. Why? “Aspartame has been investigated as a possible cause of brain tumors, mental retardation, birth defects, epilepsy, Parkinson’s Disease, Fibromyalgia, and Diabetes.”  And the FDA has made no move to regulate this toxic substance.    Check your food labels at home and throw out everything that has on its label:     Use natural sweeteners like raw, . Avoid products that are labeled “low calorie,” “diet,” “sugar free,” or “no sugar added” since they all likely contain sugar additives. Drink purified water instead of diet drinks. Do NOT drink tap water because our drinking water has now been contaminated with sucralose.  We can’t depend on the government to protect us. It’s vital to be vigilant and actively take responsibility for yourself and your family in keeping this toxic trash out of your body and out of your life.  
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.Despite the sensationalist claims featured here, aspartame has been extensively reviewed and repeatedly deemed safe. For example, the European Food Safety Authority recently confirmed – once again – that aspartame is safe for consumption by the general population, including pregnant women. This opinion, which is based on one of the most comprehensive risk assessments of aspartame to-date, further supports decades of scientific research as well as the positions of regulatory agencies around the globe, including FDA. Furthermore, these experts concluded that aspartame does not cause cancer, harm the brain or nervous system or affect behavior or cognitive function in children or adults. Bottom line: low-calorie sweeteners are safe, as science verifies.  –American Beverage AssociationNice try you paid mouthpiece. We all see what’s going on. The beverage company churns out unnecessary, aspartame filled “beverages” and you’re the lobby group that tries to convince everyone they’re oh so wonderful. Your interests are in dollars, not in the good of the public. Shoo fly, go away.I used to drink diet coke everyday.  I started getting muscle cramps and spasms in my legs. One night I got up to use the bathroom and my legs buckled beneath me.  My husband had to help me, I could not walk.  Right after that I read about the dangers of aspartame and I went off all soft drinks and anything with aspartame in it. Within two weeks the muscle cramps and spasms went away and has not returned.
I will never eat or drink anything with aspartame again. As I eat my lunch and wash it down with a diet cola, at 58 years old, I often roll my eyes when I read articles on sites devoted to “natural living” and comments on how what people chose to drink is somehow the fault of a packet of sweetener.
You see, I’m a doctor but I am foremost human. I eat and drink whatever I wish when I can find time. With that, I also run 5-10 miles a week, workout 3 times a week, drink plenty of water and sleep reasonably well. All of this and I’ve been drinking drinks (in moderation) with regular and artificial sweeteners for over 4 decades. Personally I prefer diet sodas and have had no side effects, health issues nor found any concrete evidence to convince me not to continue to enjoy them. In fact, all that is truly substantiated by most national & international dietary, diabetic and cancer centers is as follows: Nearly 1,000,000 people per year will die of obesity and of that nearly 300,000 will develop diabetes due to diets where sugar intake is above normal and exercise levels are decreased. So despite all of the “internet professionals” out there with an excuse for everything; I recommend you hop off your soap-box and go for a jog, grab a dumbbell and try to get some more sleep. Doing so led me to an ideal weight, BMI of 18.8 and avoiding hereditary traits such as diabetes, heart disease and obesity. Moderation people. Just make good choices…Sounds like you were dehydrated. No wonder two weeks off soda helped you out!It’s fantastic to see such a useful post. I am sure there are many people who are faced with the same problems I recently had. I couldn’t find BTW, there is an online service through which you can fill out a a form, the fillable blank is here I drank a 2 liter of Diet Mountain Dew (Aspartame), I was dizzy,  and had a terrible headache. The aspartame-free Diet Pepsi doesn’t do that to me (it has Sucralose)I hear you. I drank a 2 liter, also, and had terrible bladder pains.“Chlorine a known carcinogen, so why would the FDA allow toxic materials to be used in our food and beverages?”…The chlorine in sucralose is part of a molecule, do you know what that means? Do you understand the difference between chlorine in its ionic state vs in its elemental form, and why one is toxic while the other is not? Should I also cut salt out of my diet completely for the same reason?Your lack of such basic scientific knowledge makes your entire slate of propaganda suspect.That was TO much Caffeine Yikes!I quit using artificial sweeteners and immediately my ankle swelling went away!I quit using artificial sweeteners and immediately, I won the lottery!Exactly.  Caffeinated beverages are less than ideal when it comes to hydration, and the diuretic nature of caffeine can cause dehydration.Municipal tap water contains, by law, chlorine as a bacteriacide.  It imparts a slight risk of bladder cancer, but provides a huge benefit by eliminating water-borne pathogens that cause deadly diseases.I recently bought Nestea sweet iced tea mix. I love the taste. Today l read the ingredients and it contains sucralose, xxx, that’s a shame, as l won’t ever buy it again. However, l recently was served an iced tea called Pure Leaf. It is owned by Lipton and contains sugar. It tastes very good, but cost more. It will be my new favorite.Totally agree!  I have suffered for 15 years.   Maybe a lot of people can eat this stuff, but for me it is definitely poison/toxic.
I have been diagnosed with Fibromyalgia, Chronic Migraines, Lupus SLE, chronic pain, cancer, memory issues.  A year and half ago, I decided to removed all artificial sweeteners from my diet, It took several months before I felt better but now I no longer have joint/muscle pain, migraines, rashes and my inflammation levels are normal again.  I have weaned off almost all my meds. I know I will have long-term health issues since it went on for so long but I truly believe I finally found the root cause to my issues.
I now read every label twice, it’s not just in food but vitamins and other things. I know quickly when something has it as I get a migraine.  Sucralose is worse for me than Aspartame but both are bad.
I am now looking forward to just enjoying life again without pain!!Yeah, Chlorine sure is bad and causes cancer and that is why every human being on the planet has  caught cancer from salt — sodium Chloride.  Instead of Artificially trying to scare people due to your pet peeves, why don’t you present the real science about these chemicals.  You seem lazy, biased and  ignorant.boiling tap water will remove the chlorine.Okay Bob so you have been lucky, congratulations. But I think given the government’s track record  on openness and honesty I am less likely to trust an agency controlled by politicians who take money from corporations. The fact is that studies cannot possibly take into account all of the variables such as genetic make up,  synergy of chemicals, etc. Considering the increase in prevalence of many diseases, it just makes sense to stay as close to natural as possible.Yes, but boiling drives off oxygen and leaves the water tasting flat (which is why you never bring water to a full boil when used for brewing tea).Most municipalities are disinfecting their water with chloroamines rather than chlorine, because chloroamines are less volatile.  Thus, letting tap water stand for a while before using it, to allow the chlorine to volatilize, isn’t a viable option.  Carbon filtration or chemical neutralization work better.  A Britta pitcher with a carbon filter kept in the fridge is effective.  A carbon filter on the tap also works.  Vitamin C or sodium thiosulfate will neutralize the chlorine regardless of its chemical form.I get massive migraines from artificial sweeteners, so I know from experience that they are toxic. They did studies that some people with MS symptoms who were drinking diet sodas were completely relieved after quitting them. These things aren’t coincidence.I do agree that those who think they’ve had adverse reactions due to caffeinated drinks sweetened with artificial sweeteners should eliminate them from their diet first to establish a baseline. Only then can you conclusively determine that the artificial sweetener was the culprit. If you drank diet soda regularly and started getting headaches or cramps, for example, drink regular soda for 2-3 weeks at the same rate and see if that fixes your condition. If it does, and you did not make any other diet/lifestyle change, then it was the artificial sweetener. If it didn’t, then it could be caffeine or other lifestyle factor. Keep making positive dietary/lifestyle changes one by one until you nail it.
Once the experiment is done though, quit drinking sodas – they offer no nutritive value whatsoever.Thanks for the info.