  Loquat, also known as Eriobotrya japonica, is a subtropical tree with a long history of use in traditional and herbal medicine. Although the loquat produces edible fruit that is rich in calcium, iron, vitamin A, and potassium, the therapeutic power of loquat is contained in its large and glossy evergreen leaves. Traditionally used to make a tea, loquat leaf has been reputed to promote skin, respiratory, and intestinal health.    Science has discovered that many of the health benefits provided by loquat leaf are owed to its impressive antioxidant activity. Being an ultra-rich source of natural antioxidants, loquat leaf is a common additive in cosmetics and food.    Antioxidants, which have , protect against harmful toxins and free radicals.  Loquat leaf also contains triterpenoid acids which help soothe redness and swelling.   Here are five facts about loquat leaf.Your  is part of your body’s first line of defense against toxins, and its job is to process and eliminate toxins. To help, loquat contains an antioxidant known as Amygdalin, or B-17, which supports the liver. It also contains linoleic acids and plant sterols, which encourage normal liver function. Support for blood sugar levels is another benefit offered by the triterpenes in loquat leaf.   One triterpene in particular, tormentic acid, encourages polysaccharide production — a necessary component of insulin production.  Although it is premature for diabetics to rejoice and rely on loquat leaf, it is encouraging news and hopefully we’ll see more research. is a cornerstone of the traditional use of loquat leaf. It’s been used as a remedy for congestion, cough, sensitivity to irritants, and even lung irritation.  Clinical research has confirmed its efficacy. A 2009 study at the Kyungpook National University School of Medicine found that loquat leaf slowed the allergic reactions in mice.  Other animal models have found that it helps to reduce sneezing and the effects of histamines.  The primary reason loquat leaf is so beneficial is because it stops irritation from ever occurring. A separate study in 2009 found that loquat leaf disrupts the communication from the cells that detect irritation and “turn on” the redness and swelling response. When used in a topical cream, loquat leaf can be an excellent remedy for the red, irritated skin that results from environmental sensitivities. This is especially true when irritation is the result of histamines.  Similarly, the soothing benefits of loquat leaf can be had orally. Loquat leaf has been used to extinguish uncomfortable, swollen gums. Oxidative damage caused by free radicals is believed to be one of the primary causes of neurodegenerative disorders. Because loquat leaf is a beneficial antioxidant, it was examined in 2011 for its ability to support normal brain operation and protect against oxidative stress. Not only did the results confirm both, but mice given loquat leaf extract were observed to experience memory improvements. Loquat leaf is available in several forms, including tea and even as a respiratory syrup for kids. We’ve added it to our  to support the elimination of toxic substances. Have you had any experience with loquat leaf? If so, please leave a comment below and let us know what benefits you observed.
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.Yes, it is right to say that Loquat leaf is very beneficial because it is full and enrich with vitamins and minerals, and both vitamins and minerals are necessary for our health.I am just amazed at the wealth of information mentioned as biblographical reference. Who said that alternativ e health was a scam not based on science? Of course there are quacks in the field, but not everybody is, and obviously Dr Group is not one of them 🙂How much of tincture, leaf powder and tea is to be used? My experience was, that it can loosen the stools, if too much is taken…:) I used a few leaves (and they are large), when making pastured bone broth, and when I added it to soup, I got something close to diarrhea.I have a luqat tree in my garden and started making tea from the leaves Brown and green, the green is actually tastier than the Brown leaves. The tea is very similar to normal English tea to my surprise, so not only is it free, it is healthier.