    It seems that everywhere you look today you can find a source for toxins—food, clothes, children’s toys…you get the idea. Sometimes, no matter how careful you are, toxins can sneak past you,  and body. It never hurts to arm yourself with a healthy dose of awareness and prevention, two components that can protect you and your family from unseen attackers.      Toxins really are everywhere, and it is almost impossible to avoid them 100% of the time. Still, you can limit your exposure to harmful , not to mention a plethora of other compounds. Here are just 12 sneaky ways that toxins are infiltrating your life and what you can do about it.In a collaborative study from Nanjing University in China and the University of Florida, scientists studied plastic water bottles exposed to varying temperatures over four weeks. In the bottles left at higher temperatures, like the temperature in a hot car, levels of BPA and antimony increased.  Most of us have heard of , a toxin that mimics estrogen and is thought to disrupt hormone balance, but  is also bad news, playing a role in lung, heart, and gastrointestinal diseases.   Sure,  is an amazingly convenient invention that saves time; however, there’s recent evidence suggesting exposure to C8, a chemical involved in the production of Teflon, could be responsible for medical issues like kidney cancer, testicular cancer, thyroid disease, high cholesterol, pregnancy-induced hypertension, and ulcerative colitis.     There’s probably more than you think lurking beneath the surface of your couch. Furniture that has been treated with  seems like a smart choice, but flame-retardant chemicals might be taking a toll on your health. These toxins have links to cancer, issues with fertility, and disruptions in sexual and neurological function.   According to many toxicology reports, not even clothes are safe against toxin levels. In an October 2014 report from the Swedish Chemicals Agency, 2,400 substances were identified in clothing, with about 10% of that number posing a threat to humans and the environment.   Used in the production of some plastics, acrylamide has been consistently linked to cancer. In 2013, worrisomely high levels of this toxin were found in certain UK baby foods. As if that weren’t enough, –linked to problems with reproductive development–have been appearing in unsafe levels in the diets of children two years and under.  Used to make plastic flexible, phthalates have been banned in the U.S. in the production of sippy cups, plastic plates, and other children’s products. So how then are they getting into your child’s food?     is often used in soap for its antibacterial properties. Unfortunately, of the almost 1,500 tons that are produced worldwide each year, much of that will end up in our rivers and streams. The environmental impact alone is staggering, but there’s also a human concern, with strong research suggesting a link to liver cancer.  Fortunately, Minnesota has recently banned triclosan. Here’s hoping other states will follow suit.      Remember phthalates? Well, that US ban only covers 6 of them, so this means toy manufacturers can simply use an unbanned one or, as all toys aren’t inspected, possibly even a banned one. A recent Public Interest Research Group (PIRG) study also found higher than the legal limits of lead and chromium in some toys.  There have been efforts to curb this problem, though. For example, the Albany county legislature in New York just introduced the Toxic-Free Toys Act, which would allow the county health commissioner to inspect all toys before sale. A small step, sure, but baby steps are better than none at all.    Many of those so-called convenient  are brightly colored, and that’s a big problem for kids. From 2012 to 2013, over 17,000 children under the age of 6 ate or inhaled the contents; some also squirted the liquid into their eyes.  In addition to accidental poisonings, those flame retardant chemicals used in your furniture are transferred to your clothing. Clothes are then washed, and over time, these flame-retardant chemicals are making their way into the water supply.   The Alliance for a Healthy Tomorrow and Clean Water Action found elevated levels of toxins in costumes and party supplies. Over 106 items sold at national retailers were tested for chemicals with links to health concerns. Multiple issues were found; for example, one toddler costume had abnormally high levels of phthalates, tin, and lead.A recent Greenpeace study found that over 50% of  use toxic substances like Polyvinylchloride (PVC) and Brominated flame retardants (BFRs). PVC is thought to pose a health risk, while long-term exposure to BFRs has been linked to kidney and brain damage.  Quaternary ammonium compounds, or quats, are still commonly used in commercial-grade cleaning products. They’re also used in some shampoos, disinfecting wipes, and nasal sprays. While no one has studied human toxicity, researchers from Virginia Tech and Washington State University looked at quats in breeding mice and suggested these toxins can also affect a woman’s reproductive health.     Toxins might be hiding in your personal care items. I mentioned Triclosan earlier, but there are many other chemicals you wouldn’t want anywhere near your skin; some are even linked to cancer.  In addition to chemicals, you also have to deal with microbeads. These tiny plastic beads in your body wash are washing down the drain and into lakes and rivers. Once there, the beads won’t biodegrade, so they have nothing to do but collect.  Fish eat the toxic microbeads, you eat the fish, and your health suffers. Thankfully, some states are limiting the use of these beads, and many companies are even working on .    Now that you know some of the sneaky ways toxins can infiltrate your life, what can you do about it? Here are some steps to help you avoid, or reduce exposure to these toxins:Of course, there is no way you can stay away from every single toxin. Cleansing, however, is a great option to stay in control of your overall health. Check out my  article to get a leg up on reducing toxins in your life.
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.Some of the food consumers buy at the grocery store has ethylene glycol in it. Our vehicles have ethylene glycol in the radiator and cooling system. A bottle of antifreeze/coolant has printed ”DANGER POISON” on the front of the bottle. On the back of the bottle it has printed, ”CONTENTS HARMFUL. Do not swallow. Do not breathe fumes. Keep out of reach of children. Use only in a well-ventilated area”. and so on…I fully believe in everything Dr Group has said ! Much of it we know or suspect !   So to return to nature would be my slogan even if nature has been polluted… So we do what we can to live poison free lives every day in every way !  To think clean is to live clean..and our creator God will also be involved of course… we live carefully not carelessly !  It takes discipline !  But worth it !  Also one cannot cook with Olive OIl because it becomes poisonous when over heated.. and I read Canola oil is also not good to cook with for the same reason but worse for us …plus any other seed oil..    That leaves coco nut oil…and even then one should do this in moderation !   So I steam my veggies… braise any meat carefully.. with water and then add Olive oil to it …or Coconut oil…  taking great care becomes a habit !  and salad greens are washed in Permangenate of Potash… hopefully that will  still be acceptable…because i have very little access to organic foods..unlike fortunate Americans  !   And now bottled water is not perfect  either ! it can be used only if cool and the botlte not used a second time which I was doing !   So I also pray over my kitchen ,fridge, stove and food..every day .asking for the Amighty God fo protect them and myself… !Hi, Blue Plumbago. Thank you so much for your feedback and support!