Grown around the world, the tamarind tree and its fruit that grows in pods and appears brown when mature delivers B vitamins and is an excellent source of calcium, magnesium, and iron. An important part of the tropical cuisine and traditional medicine for centuries, the tamarind fruit has gained a reputation as a powerful super-food that can help fight several modern diseases.The sweet and sour fruit called tamarind has a unique “super-power.” It removes one of the most toxic substances ingested by most Americans – .Everywhere tamarind has spread, healers have found it useful for supporting good health. It’s been used to remedy fevers, speed healing of wounds, diarrhea, malaria, abdominal pain and indigestion, constipation, eye diseases, and disinfecting. Tamarind is also widely used in many dishes and candy around the world.In recent years, tamarind has caught the attention of modern medicine. Like so many plants and herbs consumed for their health benefits, it helps your body resist common physical stresses caused by diet and environmental pollutants. Here are a few ways it helps.In one study, an extract of tamarind fruit stimulated production of the liver’s natural antioxidants superoxide dismutase and glutathione. With the increase in , the livers of test subjects experienced less damage. Tamarind seed extract protects joints, bones, and cartilage from arthritis.  It breaks down inflammatory chemicals like interleukin and prevents the formation of enzymes that break down bone and cartilage.While cutting out foods loaded with sugar makes a good first step, it’s important to add foods that support blood sugar control. Based on research so far, regular consumption of tamarind offers positive effects on blood sugar. With fluoride in toothpaste and a fluoridated water supply, the majority of Americans are in “overload status” of this toxic, non-useful metal. Once in your body, it . Detoxing fluoride can be a challenge, but tamarind can handle it. In one study, 18 healthy boys were given a third of an ounce of tamarind daily for 18 days and eliminated what researchers described as a “significant” amount of fluoride.  One note about tamarind…the researchers did report increased loss of essential minerals zinc and magnesium. So you should consider supplementing with these minerals if you eat tamarind over a period of time.Tamarind’s unique as it is a fruit that’s an excellent source of calcium. It’s also loaded with B vitamins that support energy.Traditional healers consider tamarind a superfood. And the way it helps , reduce the symptoms of arthritis, and  supports this long held view. But its special ability to detox fluoride takes it way beyond simply a food or supplement for health support. This tropical fruit offers an effective way to remove fluoride, the dangerous mineral toxin linked to bone loss, hormone imbalance, arthritis, infertility, , heart disease, kidney disease, and more.For more information on fluoride and fluoride detox, check out .
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.Is tamarind fruit sold in CANADA? Can it be bought I pill form?You can buy tamarind “candies” (fresh, ripe tamarind pulp that is mixed with sugar and salt) in any Asian grocery. They’re delicious! Pure pulp can be bought as well although it’s not carried by all stores. Unripe pulp is also carried but is very sour and used for cooking, not eating directly. “Candy” is the easiest way to buy and consume tamarind. The Thai versions are usually also mixed with chili. Filipino versions are, in my opinion, the best (salt and sugar only). Mexican versions tend to have more sugar than Asian versions of this treat and sometimes have preservatives. Asian tamarind pulp candies have nothing artificial. Just sugar and salt (add chili if it’s Thai and sometimes sweet potato pulp as an extender/sweetener – rare but check the ingredients anyway). Warning: can make farts pretty smelly 🙂 But then you know it’s working 🙂Hi Ed! Tamarind DECREASES excretion of magnesium and zinc, not INCREASES, as stated in your article. Please read up on it. Thank you!The place I was born and raised had abundant tamarind trees. Me with my childhood friends plucked the fruits and ate them. We offered the leftover to monkeys who from a distance watched us gulping down the fruits wondering on our gluttony. Actually we never game a damn to the wastage of the fruits, considering we barely thought the tamarinds in coming days would be scarce commodities. After reading this article by the doctor, I sort of feel sorry for not having planted enough tamarind trees back those days.Where would I be able to read up on this Xan The please?.I buy it as a pure form paste for eating. Just love it.  I grew up on tamarinds and tamarind leaves.  Thank goodness they were available as a tree at our country post office, because there wasn’t much good food in our house.  I think the tamarinds may have helped a great deal as a growing child who was nutritionally deplete.Where on earth where you living to have a tamarind tree at your post-office? 😉. And yes, nutritionally dense food, very high in fiber and the fermented ones have tons of probiotics – hence the farting, I believe ☺Slade Point Mackay.