      Phosphorus is a mineral that helps your body maintain healthy bones and teeth.  It is essential for life and makes up about 1% of your body weight, making it the second most abundant mineral in your body next to calcium. 85% of the phosphorus in your body is in your teeth and bones; with calcium, it keeps your bones and teeth strong. It also plays a major role in how your body uses carbohydrates and fats, repairs cells, stores energy, and works with B vitamins. Most people are able to get enough phosphorus from their diet, so let’s take a look at the top 10 foods high in phosphorus.    Most natural foods contain some amount of phosphorus. Protein-rich foods generally offer the highest amounts of phosphorus, but non-protein sources like whole grains, potatoes,  can also have impressive levels of this essential mineral. Here are 10 foods high in phosphorus:     In addition to the role it shares with calcium for bone and teeth health, phosphorus is involved with many of your body’s other natural processes. In fact, this mineral plays a role in almost every aspect of your health. Bodily processes that require phosphorus include…    Remember, when it comes to minerals and health, balance is key. Too much or too little of a certain mineral can create an imbalance that does more harm than good. That’s why I recommend a reliable mineral supplement, such as  , to help you maintain the proper balance of important minerals. In addition to helping you keep minerals like phosphorus and calcium in equilibrium, IntraMIN will also ensure that you get trace minerals that might otherwise be missing from your diet. Some of the minerals found in this formula include magnesium, silver and boron, and many others.    Getting enough phosphorus is not difficult. Your total daily intake should be between 700 and 1000 mg per day , and keep your phosphorus-calcium levels in balance.    Too much phosphorus can deplete your body of calcium and weaken your bones. Excess phosphorus can also lead to a hardening of soft tissue and organs , a formation of mineral deposits in your muscles , and an imbalance in other minerals like iron, zinc, and magnesium . One of the main offenders here is phosphoric acid, which is found in sweet drinks like sodas. Fortunately, consuming too much phosphorus is rare, but it’s something you’ll want to watch out for if you have kidney disease.    Phosphorus deficiency, or , is also a rare occurrence. Some medications, including ACE inhibitors, antacids, insulin, and corticosteroids, can lower phosphorus levels  in the body. If you do take any of the medications listed, keep an eye out for joint pain, fatigue, anxiety and loss of appetite, as these can all be signs that you are running low on phosphorus.     Leave a comment below and tell us how you get enough phosphorus!  
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.