What ingredients come to mind when someone says, “tater tots”? Taters, of course. How about zucchini? No? Well, that’s about to change. This vegan recipe is healthy, , and tastes amazing. It only takes four ingredients and you probably have them in your kitchen right now. Zucchini tater tots are healthier and taste way better than those processed, frozen tots they served in your school lunchroom. Make some for your kids and, while you’re at it, you better make a few for yourself too. Otherwise, you may find yourself sneaking them off your child’s plate!There are a couple versions of this recipe making the rounds on the internet. This variation is based on the recipe posted by Izzy at . Thanks, Izzy! These zucchini tater tots are a great snack, and they’re healthy.How do you like to enjoy zucchini? Leave a message below and share your thoughts!
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.Can you freeze these tots and reheat them?  There is always so much zucchini in the garden and we are always looking for new, different ways to preserve it.
I guess it would be worth a try.Pretty deceiving recipe, I would challenge ANYONE to make these in 30 minutes, more like 90 when you include the baking time. 10 minute prep time? Seriously? A professional chef couldn’t do all the prep for this in 10 minutes. Sounds like a nice recipe, but hey, it does have POTATOES  in it… why not tell the truth, list the real time, make it believable, for God’s sake. Is that so difficult?You may be the first person in history to blow a gasket over a tater tot recipe.I’m happy to have that distinction… 😉The name of the recipe is Zucchini TATER tots, and a potato is a “tater”, so the name of the recipe is appropriate (recipe contains zucchini AND potatoes). Also, you may not understand what prep time actually is.  Here is a good article on it.
I tried this recipe and added a few more ingredients to it, such as black pepper and nutritional yeast for a cheesy like flavor which tasted very good and i will be making more in the near future.