Have you ever read a , saw that it contained citric acid, and wondered what the heck citric acid is? Though the name sounds half-natural half-synthetic, citric acid is a wonderful natural ingredient that can boost detoxification and support healthy digestion, energy levels, and kidney function. Here, we’ll take a look at this intriguing ingredient and explain how the right type of citric acid can benefit your health.Citric acid is an organic acid found most abundantly in fruits (especially citrus fruits) like lemons, limes, grapefruit, pineapples, and oranges. Its chemical formula is CHO. This organic acid was first isolated from a lemon using  (a fungus) in 1784 by Carl Wilhelm Scheele. Since then, it has been considered safe for consumption and has GRAS (Generally Recognized As Safe) status from the FDA.However, just because citric acid was originally isolated from a lemon doesn’t mean it comes from lemons anymore. In fact, most of the citric acid that’s commercially used by the food processing industry as a preservative is isolated from GMO-corn and cultivated on mold.Citric acid also offers certain benefits when it’s taken as a supplement. Citric acid encourages normal , which means that it plays a key role in igniting the metabolic process to create energy. Without it, the entire energy-producing mechanism in the body is inefficient, and the body is no longer vital enough to heal and detoxify.In addition to its internal benefits, citric acid is also good for your skin. Citric acid is highly astringent; when it’s applied topically, it can temporarily shrink your pores, reduce oiliness and breakouts, regenerate skin cells, lighten and brighten skin, and even out skin tone. For these reasons, it’s commonly found in facial packs and masks.Though it has coveted GRAS status from the FDA, and is safe in small amounts, too much citric acid can cause gastrointestinal distress, skin burning, tooth decay, and other ailments. To avoid these issues, do not consume pure citric acid. Additionally, avoid applying pure citric acid to your face and be careful when adding it to your DIY products as too much can burn and damage the skin.Since much of the commercially used citric acid is sourced from GMO corn, I also recommend exercising caution if you see it listed as an ingredient in a food or supplement. Reputable companies will only use natural citric acid but it’s hard to tell the difference unless you check their website or pick up the phone and ask. If they hedge, get defensive, or have no idea, chances are they’re using the cheap stuff.At Global Healing Center, we go to great lengths to ensure that we give you the best quality supplements. While most citric acid is made from  corn, the citric acid we use in  is produced in Austria from 100% non-GMO sources. It’s third-party tested for toxic contaminants like , toxic metals, and harmful pathogens, and it offers three distinct benefits.Citric acid assists the body in making energy so that it can cleanse and detoxify itself with strength and vigor.Many minerals, including calcium and , require that the stomach has an acidic pH for effective absorption and assimilation. The addition of citric acid in Oxy-Powder helps you get everything out of the ozonated magnesium oxides. Think of it as an efficiency booster that helps Oxy-Powder work better.Evidence shows that the use of citric acid may have a beneficial effect on protecting the liver and brain, as well as kidney deposits.Let’s recap the main points you need to know about citric acid.Do you have experience with citric acid? Is it a part of any supplements that you take? Leave a comment below and share your thoughts with us.
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.I think that most of the clear soft drinks like 7-UP and Sprite use citric acid as a base. Too bad they are loaded with sugar…Tradewinds Iced Tea uses citric acid through the fermentation of sugar using black mold. I contacted them and this is what they told me by email. I stopped drinking it and my gut has improved.It would be wildly expensive for the nefarious soda manufacturers to use fruit at the rate this garbage flies off the shelf. I would think they would use the sugar fermentation process using mold for their citric acid.I started using a shampoo by Nature’s Gate. The bottle list Vegan/non GMO Gluten & Paraben Free. I am concerned that it doesn’t use the non-gmo stamp verified, contains tomato, turmeric as well as other ingredients plus citric acid. Is their a better safer alternative for sale in shampoo and conditioner. Can you recommend? Thank you! Summer NickelsWhy not just take your acid using natures delivery system and source direct from the fruits. I have consumed the juices of about 6 home grown limes and 1 litre of fresh orange juice each day for 8 years, no problems as yet, am I in danger,   as a side note I feel great at 65You are getting a lot of sugar in a liter of orange juice.I squeeze a fresh lemon or lime in 48 oz ice tea every day, I eat the whole fruits not any type juice, I put several fruits in blender for smoothie in the a.m.You mean man made high fructose corn syrup.Yes, that form of sugar.. Supposedly, the Mexican Coke has real sugar cane but I doubt it.Is not fruit good for me as oposed to sugar offered in the foodstuffs on  market shelves and while we speak of sugars which are better simple or complex , as we were taught  sugars are the building blocks of life, or did I miss hearI stumbled across diet tonic water and added additional fresh lime to it.  For about three days I drank large quantities in my Yeti.  Now I cannot stop exercising.  I believe it has helped me  regain tremendous unlocked energy that was laying dormant inside unhealthy kidneys and liver. I cannot be certain but so far I feel brand new and will continue to see if this has truly fixed the health issues that I was concerned about.