Probiotics have long been hailed as the ultimate support for the immune and digestive systems, and there is no doubt of their ability to promote and maintain a healthy gut. However, despite their fame, a little-known truth is that  would be of little effect without their less-celebrated partner: prebiotics, or prebiotic fiber to be exact. Here we’ll discuss what is prebiotic fiber, how it helps probiotics, and why you need to include it as part of your diet.Although the term “prebiotic” is fairly new (coined in 1995), prebiotics themselves are nothing new. Prebiotics are an indigestible form of fiber found in some (but not all) fruits, vegetables, and starches. They act as a food source for the friendly bacteria in the gut. It is important to note that though every prebiotic is a fiber, not every fiber is a prebiotic. To be considered “prebiotic” in nature, a fiber must meet the following criteria:Prebiotics and probiotics have a symbiotic relationship. Prebiotic fiber is the main food source of probiotics, and probiotics cannot thrive without it. Ingesting a probiotic supplement or food with prebiotic fiber places the indigestible prebiotics in the gut where probiotics consume them. This helps those beneficial bacteria populate your gut . Conversely, if a probiotic is consumed without prebiotic fiber, it’s less likely to flourish.Though the scientific understanding of prebiotics is relatively young, promising discoveries have surfaced about their health benefits. The following is just a small sampling of the findings from research into the health benefits of prebiotics.Per a study published in The Journal of Nutrition, prebiotics and probiotics support gut health diversity and digestive health. This is just one of many studies to show that prebiotic fiber is integral for .Studies, including those published in The British Journal of Nutrition, show that prebiotic fiber improves absorption of all minerals in the body, including bone-healthy  and calcium.Prebiotics have a beneficial effect on lipid metabolism, and they can help ease systemic redness to support normal cardiovascular health.Studies published in the British Journal of Medicine and the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition have shown that prebiotics can help with appetite control by increasing satiety hormones, making you feel less hungry.A study published in The Journal of Nutrition showed consumption of 15 to 30 grams of resistant starch (a type of prebiotic fiber) a day reduced insulin resistance in obese and overweight men.According to Trends in Neuroscience, prebiotics are considered a form of “psychobiotic,” which exert beneficial effects on gut bacteria and positively impact the gut-brain-axis.In addition to their psychobiotic , the results of human and animal studies found that prebiotic fibers support normal mental and emotional health and stress response.As reported by researchers from the University of Colorado, regular consumption of prebiotics can help boost the amount of REM and non-REM sleep in animals after a stressful event.Prebiotics exist in both food and supplement form. Common examples of prebiotic fiber you will find in supplements and food include:While there’s debate over which prebiotics are the most effective, it is clear that ingesting any prebiotics with probiotics or cultured foods is beneficial.Prehistoric hunter-gatherers ingested many prebiotic-containing foods, such as desert plants. If you have not carried on that tradition and you don’t ingest enough prebiotic-rich foods in your diet, supplementation can fill the gaps.Prebiotics are available as stand-alone supplements or combined with a probiotic formula to enhance its effectiveness. Depending upon your goals, you may wish to take a combination product or a pure prebiotic. Keep in mind that a probiotic must be taken with a prebiotic (either as a supplement or food) to be effective, but a prebiotic can provide stand-alone health benefits.Since prebiotics are relatively “new” on the health and science scene, there is some debate over which foods qualify as “prebiotic foods” and which don’t. Some health care professionals and scientists believe that any fiber-containing food could have prebiotic benefits. That may be true, but, for now, we’ll focus on the “official” best prebiotic foods.It is worth noting that prebiotics are also abundant in breast milk and help babies build good gut bacteria, a benefit that’s thought to help protect infants from infections.Your natural health care professional can help you determine the best diet plan based on your current state of health and your goals. Based on my experience and the current research, I recommend consuming at least one or two prebiotic-rich foods a day to help maintain good gut health. This is in addition to a diet that’s already rich in fruits and vegetables—which may offer additional prebiotic benefits. An easy solution is to eat soups with onions and garlic, substitute Jerusalem artichokes for potatoes, and blend bananas or resistant starch (like potato starch) into your smoothies. Don’t forget to make sure that your probiotic supplement contains prebiotic fiber.To recap, prebiotics are the primary food source for probiotics and are just as important as probiotics (if not more so). Probiotics cannot flourish in your gut without prebiotics. Prebiotic supplements may be taken as stand-alone products, or combined with a probiotic like . Floratrex combines 23 different probiotics with the right amount of prebiotics to help support your gut health. No more worrying about separate supplements or adding specific foods to your diet.Are prebiotics on your radar? What insight can you provide? Leave a comment below and share your thoughts with us.
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.