Ketosis is a metabolic state in which your body uses , rather than sugar, for energy. Your body shifts into ketosis when your blood sugar is low, and the glycogen in your muscles has been depleted. Typically, this happens when you eat a low carb diet or fast from food altogether for a prolonged period. Ketosis is usually heralded as a fast and effective way to lose body fat. Research suggests that ketosis may positively affect health in other ways, as well.Normally, your body is powered by sugar from carbohydrates, a . However, if you drastically limit your intake of carbs, your body will tap into its sugar reserves, called glycogen. Once those are used up, a process that takes about three days, your liver begins to metabolize fat. This process is known as ketogenesis, and it produces ketones. Ketones are byproducts of fat metabolism that your body can use as an alternative form of energy. One technical side note—some components of your body require a very small amount of sugar, but your body can produce that small amount of sugar by itself in a process called gluconeogenesis.For your body to shift into ketosis, you must consume almost no carbohydrates. There are a couple of ways to limit your carb intake. One is through various ; another is by following a ketogenic diet. is high in fat (70-80% of your daily calorie intake), low in protein (15-20%), and very low in carbohydrates (5-10% with no more than 20-30 grams of carbs per day). There are different variations of the ketogenic diet, but, in general, it consists of low carb vegetables like leafy greens (not starchy vegetables like potatoes and corn) and  and protein like nuts, seeds, avocados, and olive oil. Depending on preference and dietary restrictions, some people consume eggs, meat, and fish.A few telltale signs that your body is in ketosis include a rebound in energy and a lack of appetite. If you need a more definite answer, there are a couple of ways to determine if your body is in ketosis and to what degree. Urine test strips are the most common. They’re widely available and are color-coded to measure the presence of ketones in urine. Tests have also been developed to detect ketosis through exhaled breath.There are many health benefits of following a ketogenic diet. Putting your body into a state of ketosis may help with neurological disorders and sensory disturbances, abnormal cell development, and even recovery from spinal cord injury. Most often, though, ketosis is praised for its beneficial effects on weight loss, blood sugar, and overall well-being.Because the ketogenic diet causes the body to burn stored body fat, it is effective for . A 2008 study that was published in the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition found that overweight men who followed a ketogenic diet for a month lost, on average, 12 pounds. Many people in ketosis develop healthier cholesterol levels, too.The ketogenic diet restricts the consumption of sugar, and it’s a helpful way to manage blood sugar levels. In fact, many of the benefits of ketosis and the ketogenic diet are directly or indirectly related to reduced sugar intake.Persons with type 1 diabetes may be susceptible to ketoacidosis, a potentially serious condition in which the acidity of the blood increases, and should not follow a ketogenic diet or seek ketosis without approval and observation from their trusted natural health care professional.The ketogenic diet can help slow and soften the effects of aging by promoting longevity and strength. Some research even suggests that it improves risk factors for some age-related health conditions.According to researchers at the Mayo Clinic, a low carb diet supports normal cognitive function. Animal studies suggest that the ketogenic diet may be helpful for neurodegenerative diseases. This is because ketosis protects neurons from oxidative damage in the neocortex, the wrinkled, folded outer layer of the brain. Damage to this area is a characteristic of neurodegenerative diseases.According to researchers at Yale School of Medicine, ketones  function. In an animal study, researchers found that hypersensitivity to allergens was significantly reduced when ketone levels were elevated. Additionally, the diet stimulates the body’s immune cell recycling process to clear out old, worn out cells and make room for fresh, new, robust immune cells.It’s important to note that as ketones are produced, the acidity of the blood also increases. For most people, this isn’t an issue. For some people, like those with type 1 diabetes who don’t produce insulin, it can lead to ketoacidosis, a serious condition that can prove fatal. Ketoacidosis can also occur in people with type 2 diabetes, although it is much less common.Ketosis is an individual experience that can be difficult to begin but the rewards are tremendous. The first two or three days are regarded as the hardest since you’re not eating sugar, but your body hasn’t yet entered ketosis. As a result, most people report feeling hungry, tired, irritable, and slow. Once ketosis kicks in, and they start burning fat, their physical energy and mental clarity return. It’s tough but the juice is worth the squeeze.If you’re interested in putting your body in ketosis but aren’t sure where to start, check out my . I’ve received a lot of positive feedback from people who’ve tried it.Do you have experience with ketosis? What insight can you provide? Leave a comment below and share your thoughts with us.
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.This is basically the old low-carb Atkins Diet.  I went on it for a while about thirty years ago and it delivered as promised.  The weight fell off rapidly.  The main offsets were chronically foul breath and rock-hard droppings – they’d literally fall into the toilet bowl with an audible clank.  This could be alleviated somewhat by healthy portions of salad greens, which add helpful roughage..It’s quite a bit different then at Atkins. I follow Dr Berg. The key to it is eating lots of raw vegetables; he suggests 7 cups a day. But even without that, if you start your day with a tablespoon of olive oil you won’t have any problem with constipation. Bad breath was never an issue for meThanks for the reply.  Now being well into my eighth decade I’m rather indifferent to my waistline, since I’m well past the point of attracting women and can now take pride in my protruding gut.Even Atkins is just a rehash. William Banting published the first low carb diet in 1863. His book “Letter On Corpulence” is available online.
Wikipedia article:
Approv[image: GlobalHealingCenter] *Ben Nettleton *| Web Editor | Social Media*t:* (713) 476-0016 x220  *w:* globalhealingcenter.comGet Healthy. Stay Healthy.Truly, what goes around comes around.I also tried low carb diet and it did help me shed some extra weight. The problem was to maintain that weight so I started a light exercise routine and found a miracle ingredient by the name of black seed oil. It helps burn fat and helps boost results of this diet plan.I am shocked that I had very little hunger or cravings during the fast.  I went into ketosis by the evening of the 1st day.  I am at the end of day 4 and still in ketosis and sticking with it.  However, for the 1st 3 days I had a dull headache, stiffness in my neck and discomfort in my back.  When I got up on day 4, the headache and neck stiffness was gone.  However, the back discomfort had increased.  I take Fermented Chlorella as a binder on a regular basis and do organic coffee enemas every-other-day to keep the toxins cleaned out.  I have also been taking the Oxy-Powder as recommended.  I drink filtered water with apple cider vinegar all day to keep my electrolytes balanced.  And, of course, I take my daily supplements.  I was loosing about 1.2 lbs per day then on the 3rd day I doubled my weight loss.  I can see a difference in my body fat in addition to the weight loss.What supplements do you take on this for potassium and magnesium please?Hi, Lianne. We typically recommend eating more leafy greens, avocados, cacao powder, nuts, and salmon as desired to off set the electrolyte imbalance that may occur when following a ketogenic diet. However, you may also consider the all-in-one formula IntraMAX to fill in any nutritional gaps. Here you have more information: .I’m confused, isn’t ketosis counter to what you, and Naturopathy, teach people in regards to having a higher alkaline level in your body? Ketosis increases acidity quite a bit which makes your body vulnerable to diseases so I’m confused why you would advocate a low carb diet like this?Hi, Steve. Yes, it’s true that as ketones are produced, the acidity of the blood increases, however, this is more so a problem for people with type 1 diabetes who are in danger of entering ketoacidosis since they do not produce insulin. This is also a problem for people with type 2 diabetes as they do not produce sufficient insulin to stabilize blood sugar levels. Overall, we advocate for a vegan-based ketogenic diet with plenty of veggies, green leafy vegetables, and alkalizing minerals, and according to our research, ketones actually support the immune system through cellular recycling (autophagy). We’ll keep everyone posted should any new information arise.