The  are many and various. Fasting supports good health by promoting a healthy body weight, encouraging normal cognitive function, and even facilitating detoxification. Now, research has also shown that fasting may help reset the immune system.Like every other system in the body, the immune system is subject to wear and tear. Aging, aggressive medical therapies, oxidative stress, environmental toxins, and the like can all accelerate the degradation of immune cells. When immune cells are weak and frail, they’re not as effective as they should be in protecting your health. This is where fasting can help.When you fast, your body looks for nourishment everywhere it can. It goes after stored fat, but it also recycles malfunctioning or inactive cells, like those old, worn out immune system cells. This cell recycling process, known as autophagy, makes room for your body to create fresh, new immune cells. It’s similar to spring cleaning, in that you declutter your body and end up with a rejuvenated immune system. Many people, especially those whose immune system is compromised, make a concerted effort to fast for a few days once or twice every six months to reset and  with fresh, strong cells.The Stages of Fasting- In-depth Interview with Dr. Goldhamer & Dr. GroupLength: 93 minutesForty-eight hours appears to be the minimum duration to see benefits to the immune system, but it may take a bit longer for the desired effect. A three day fast is a long enough duration to see some of the benefits, but short enough that most people wont need professional supervision.If you’ve never performed a fast before, start small. Going a full three days without eating can be emotionally and mentally stressful if you’re not prepared for the side effects. Start with , a pattern of eating that involves alternating cycles of fasting and eating. Try extending how long you go between meals. Slowly increase the amount of time between meals until you can go most of the day without eating food.If you tolerate this well and aren’t under the care of a health care professional, you can try . When you feel ready, you can embark on an extended  to boost the immune system even further.Have you tried fasting to improve your immune system? What was your experience like? Leave a comment below and share your insight!
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.I need to eat to keep my body from shaking because of diabetes.  How do I meet both need for food and need to fast at the same time?Can you drink herbal tes during a fast, besides just drinking water? What about some apple cider vinegar in the water?It would be nice if they would respond to people’s questions…It’s best to simply drink distilled, spring, or pure filtered water as herbal teas or any type of water additive will trigger digestion and inhibit the regenerative process.PLEASE nobody drink distilled water, especially during a fast. Distilled water is dangerous as it is absolutely pure H2O and especially while on fast it can dangerously deplete your body of minerals and electrolytes.  Google it.  It’s dangerous.