Not all iron is created equally, and if you have an iron imbalance, you should carefully consider which iron is best for your health. Your body recognizes the difference between heme and nonheme iron sources and will absorb each type differently. These types are easy to identify in your daily diet. Heme iron comes from animals, and nonheme iron comes from plants. Here is everything else you need to know about the differences between heme and nonheme iron and how each can affect your health.Heme iron is the type of iron found in blood and muscle. Present in animal foods like red meats, fish, and poultry, heme iron is a significant source of the absorbed iron in a typical western diet, though it only makes up about one-third of dietary iron. Heme iron gets its name from the heme protein attached to a lone iron atom. The “heme” in the blood protein hemoglobin refers to this protein-bound form of iron.On average, the human body absorbs about 15% to 35% of heme iron consumed. While the exact mechanism of absorption is unclear, it is clear that the body absorbs heme iron more readily than nonheme iron. However, it’s important to note that heme iron introduces the .While , the rapid absorption of heme iron is not always a good thing. Keeping the right iron balance is critical. Too little iron puts you at risk for developing  anemia; too much can increase oxidative stress. While these concerns can exist with nonheme iron, there are additional health concerns linked directly to heme iron, including  the risk of stroke, coronary heart disease, several types of cancer, and gastrointestinal side effects. Heme iron only exists in animal products or animal-based iron supplements. These heme iron supplements are available as powders, tablets, capsules, and even drinks. Heme iron-rich foods include oysters, beef liver, and sardines.Nonheme iron is iron found in plant foods like , beans, and . Nonheme iron is not combined with a heme protein, and this difference is the reason for the body’s reduced ability to absorb nonheme iron. Slower absorption allows you to eat more iron-rich plants without .Nonheme iron is the iron found in plants, and plant foods are inherently healthier than animal foods. Additionally, because nonheme iron is absorbed at a rate of 2% to 20%, toxic iron overload is less likely. Maintaining adequate levels of iron is a delicate balance. Your body is significantly better at moderating the absorption of nonheme iron. Heme iron, on the other hand, can bypass the body’s attempts to control iron absorption. Since you have no way of eliminating excess iron from the body, this gives nonheme iron a significant advantage over heme iron.Likewise, consuming plant-based foods provides an array of powerful nutrients, , and  to support your overall health, not just your iron status. Nonheme iron is also less likely to cause health concerns for your heart, unlike meat. is the main difference between heme and nonheme iron. Nonheme iron is absorbed at a lower rate than heme iron. However, in this case, its weakness is a strength in disguise. Nonheme iron poses a lower risk of causing iron toxicity, even when consumed in large amounts. Your body allows the iron to pass through the digestive system for elimination.Plant-based food is the best source of nonheme iron. You can boost your iron intake by eating more iron-rich vegan foods like spinach, lentils, and pumpkin seeds. Also, taking with  can enhance the absorption of iron. Some supplements contain only nonheme iron, but they are far less common than their heme supplement counterparts.Global Healing Center offers the highest quality nonheme iron supplement available.  provides 100% nonheme iron from curry tree leaves along with a proprietary blend of thyme and echinacea extracts to help your body absorb and use iron. Try it today for yourself and experience the benefits of plant-sourced iron.
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.Can I ask as someone who is trying out a vegan diet to see how it effects my overall health…what can I eat to ensure that I will not be deficient in any way in Iron and protein?I know there are great plant based sources of protein but as far as preventing anaemia from limiting red meat, what should I be eating? Can we source the majority of our iron required from a plant based diet or is there a need to integrate red meat regularly? ThanksThanks for the marvelous posting! I definitely enjoyed reading it, It’s great that you are getting thoughts from this post as well as from our argument made at this time.I will ensure that I bookmark your blog and will often come back very soon. I want to encourage you to definitely continue your great posts, have a nice weekend!SuToCorp , Buying service , Proxy service can buy from Japan, Usa, Singapore, Korea, Germany , United Kingdom , Australia, China .We have staff, warehouse in these country. feel free to consult with us at buyingservice@sutocorp:disqus .com / info@sutocorp:disqus .comLINE CHAT SUTOCORP