Echinacea is a powerful and beneficial herb used by people around the world to maintain good health. Every part of the plant, from the roots to the flower petals, is bursting with vital nutrients. With a reputation as a , many people enjoy echinacea in one form or another, whether as a tea, a supplement, or even the raw plant. Here, we’ll look at ten impressive ways echinacea can support your health.    A flowering plant native to North America, echinacea has dotted the American landscape in one form or another for hundreds of years. Initially prized by the Native American Sioux Indians as a remedy for snakebites, colic, and infections, it went on to become a wellness staple until the advent of antibiotics. Today, echinacea remains one of America’s most beloved and widely used herbs. Natural cold remedies, cough drops, and organic supplements all cite echinacea as a key ingredient.Like other herbs, the health benefits of echinacea are owed to its diverse makeup of nutrients, which includes , alkylamides, flavonoids, , vitamin C, selenium, and zinc.Americans spend millions of dollars on echinacea supplements every year to support their health. With a long history of therapeutic use, there is a treasure trove of research to support its popularity.Echinacea can have a ; over 14 clinical trials have confirmed its ability to encourage good health all year long. Other studies show echinacea to be among the most effective supplements for seasonal wellness.Systemic swelling, redness, and discomfort in the body can have multiple sources, including an unhealthy diet or strenuous exercise. Consuming echinacea or applying skin care products that contain echinacea essential oil can help reduce and alleviate tissue irritation. Consuming echinacea promotes the health of protective cells in your body. Many of the compounds in echinacea support immune cells and encourage healthy cell growth.Echinacea may improve oxygen levels in the blood. Echinacea increases erythropoietin production in the bone marrow, this, in turn, promotes red blood cell production and increases the capacity of the blood to transport oxygen.Echinacea has been evaluated in combination with other herbs like sage and lavender and found to reduce bad breath. It’s believed this effect is partly due to echinacea’s ability to neutralized the harmful organisms that .Native Americans used echinacea to reduce aches and pains. Today, research has shown its potential for promoting comfort following surgery.Echinacea supports a normal complexion by helping to discourage blemishes and irritation. Other studies found that it helps hydrate the skin and reduce the appearance of wrinkles.Echinacea is among the , even in children. One double-blind placebo-controlled study found that air travel passengers who took echinacea tablets before and during a flight experienced fewer  respiratory issues.Echinacea is a source of antioxidants like vitamin C, beta-carotene, flavonoids, selenium, and zinc. One study found that a particular echinacea tincture had more  than .Although human research is necessary for confirmation, the results of animal studies suggest that echinacea could offer anti-aging potential. In one study, supplemental echinacea was attributed to helping extend the lifespan of aging mice.Echinacea supplements are available in many forms. If you have access to the plant itself, you can make a pure, organic tea which doubles as an incredible .Below is an easy recipe for echinacea tea. Make sure only to use organic or wildcrafted echinacea that’s free of pesticides. For flavor, you can add natural sweeteners like honey, but I prefer it plain.Echinacea is generally considered safe, however, people who are sensitive to pollen should exercise caution. Echinacea comes from the same family of plants as daisies, marigolds, and ragweed. Some common side effects include dizziness, dry mouth, and mild nausea. While it is a favorite herb taken by many women, more research is needed to determine its safety for expectant or breastfeeding mothers. Before you try echinacea yourself, consult with your trusted health care provider.If you are looking for an echinacea supplement to enhance or support your health, then choose carefully. Only buy echinacea supplements from a trusted supplier who can provide organic options that are free of harmful chemicals, additives, or sweeteners.Global Healing Center has added high-quality, organic Echinacea root extracts to its revolutionary iron support formula, . Echinacea works synergistically with the other all-natural ingredients to support optimal blood health, iron levels, and oxygen transport throughout the body.Have you tried echinacea? What was your experience? Leave a comment below and share your insight with the community.
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.WE can save the bees with this flower !!!    the bees are living on my plants !!!This has always been a NO-NO for people, like me, with Lupus (overactive immune system). I’m afraid of anything that contains it! Would love to see some more studies that can prove or disprove this exception to the rule. Ex: roots ok but not the leaves or flower no. Something like that. Would love to be able to take the GHC iron supplement but just can’t with the echinacea in it.
And if echinacea is such a NO-NO then there should be some info or warnings on the description page of the product.
Thanks Dr. Group.I have asthma and i have noticed that when I take it my breathing is so much better.I have used echinacea (tea and tincture) for the last 35 years to treat colds and flu, but I have heard that you shouldn’t use it for more than 3 days running. Is this true?