You’ve probably heard the terms “fatty acid” and “omega 3” before, but do you know what a fatty acid is or why your body needs it? What about the different types of fatty acids, what foods you can naturally find them in and how much your body needs to live a long, healthy life?Fatty acids are important for all systems of the body to function normally, including your skin, respiratory system, circulatory system, brain and organs. There are two fatty acids, termed essential fatty acids (EFA) that your body does not produce on its own. EFAs have to be ingested.The two essential fatty acids that the human body cannot produce are the omega-3 fatty acid and omega-6 fatty acid, which are important for brain development, immune system function and blood pressure regulation.Omega-3 fatty acid (Alpha-linolenic acid) is an essential fatty acid that plays an important role in brain function and may help you fight against cardiovascular disease . The American Heart Association recommends a diet in which fatty fish, like salmon, herring, sardines and tuna are consumed at least twice a week.While these foods are high in omega-3 fatty acid, I personally do not agree with this recommendation as fish can be contaminated and may be high in , which can have detrimental health effects. Plus, I believe a  consisting of little to no meat is better for the human body.Research on the health benefits of omega-3 fatty acid have shown that it may be useful for supporting the following:Omega-3 fatty acids are found naturally in:Omega-6 fatty acid (Linoleic Acid) combined with omega-3 fatty acid produces many of the health benefits described above, but the trickiest part about playing the fatty acid game is that it is best to eat them in the right amounts.You should be eating about twice as much omega-6 as omega-3, so that your omega-6 to omega-3 ratio is 2:1, but in today’s world of fast food, frozen entrees, and high calorie snacks, it is not uncommon for most people to actually be getting about 15 times more omega-6 than omega-3. Washington DC’s center for Genetics, Nutrition and Health suggest that eating omega-6 and omega-3 in the wrong proportions may actually negate the health benefits.The best sources of omega-6 are seeds, nuts and grains and green leafy vegetables, like lettuce, broccoli, purslane and kale, and in certain raw vegetable oils. Care should be taken to use raw cold pressed vegetable oils because cooking destroys the benefits of the fatty acids.Omega-6 fatty acids are also found naturally in:Omega-9, or monounsaturated oleic and stearic acid, is a non essential fatty acid produced naturally by the body whenever there is enough of either Omega 3 and 6 essential fatty acids.However, if you do not have enough omega 3 and omega 6, then you must get omega 9 from your diet.This fatty acid plays a role in promoting heart health by supporting healthy, balanced cholesterol levels and improving immune function.Omega-9 fatty acids are also found naturally in:Within the body omega-3 fatty acids are converted to DHA and EPA (docosahexaenoic acid and eicosapentaenoic acid, respectively). DHA and EPA are highly  that play very important roles in the vision development and brain function of infants.One study found significantly lower amounts of EPA in the cells of patients who had attempted suicide, suggesting that omega-3 fatty acids may actually play a role in suicide prevention. A lack of DHA has been associated with Alzheimer disease, attention disorders, phenylketonuria, cystic fibrosis and other diseases. Blue green algae is a good source of EPA and DHA.
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.Hello Dr. Group,This is off-topic but I am doing an oral presentation for school and would like to know your opinion on the use of tanning beds as a substitute for natural sunlight in areas that are overcast, like MI. If so may I reference you as well.
Thank You.I saw a video interview with Dr Mercola on  where he talks about using tanning beds to supply Vitamin D successfully to the human body. You can check out his interview and research there (for free)…
Many blessings & Amazing health,
Bastiaan, Amsterdam (NL)Hi Dr Group,Traditional Chinese Physicians would disagree with the raw food with little meat diet concept as it is considered too ‘cold’ for the body, especially for those with very ‘yin’ constitution. People who are very yin typically experience weakness, tiredness and feel cold easily. While I believe many people have thrived on such diets it is not for everybody.Great article, very well written. Many dieters don’t realize the benefit that vitamins can have to their health.Hello,What is the website orstore name you mentioned for the omega 369Omega 3 fatty acids have lot of benefits. They are most essential for a healthy body and especially recommended for persons suffering from heart diseases. The main source of omega 3 fatty acids are fish and flax seeds.Great article…I, for one, can attest to the power of the Omega3’s that are present in Chia (specifically Mila)
Within a week of using Mila, aches and pains diminished and my energy level was awesome.  Within approx. 4 months, my cholesterol came down approx 30 points.  I hear alot of talk about seafood and flax but there is only one food that is giving 3g of Omega 3 per serving and the best ratio of 3’s to 6’s.  I am a diabetic .The reading  after  two hours of eating food is around 127 mg/dl.  I take one pill a day of Omega 3,6,9 Capsules,and eat tuna too.I take 3 times a day metformin HCL BP 500MG .Is it Wrong to do so.Whoa, you’re kidding right?? Canola oil is horrible for you and NOT a good source of omega-3! Cooking oils aren’t really a great way to get omega-3, except maybe macadamia nut oil.Excellent article!  Well-written, direct and to the point.  Many authors out there are trying to relay the same info, but only cause confusion and doubt.  I’ve shared this info with my friends and relatives in South America  Thanks!Omega 3 fatty acids are the most beneficial oils a person can consume, either as supplements or from fish. I just can’t speak highly enough about them.I like a supplement that supplies essential fatty acids in an ideal ratio of omega 3-6-9.  There are several different quality brands.Have you ever considered getting the 3,6,9,11 omegas from Emu’s? Trust me this is better than one stop shopping! You cannot find 4 omegas in one species in the world. Not only does the emu oils help with brain development but it also produces callogen.The so-called doctor that wrote this article is either misinformed or is just plain stupid. As research has shown the risk of consuming wild caught fish is far outweighed by the benefits of eating fish. Unless you are pregnant, or plan on giving birth in the near future do not worry about the mercury levels in fish because the benefits of fish consumption are far more beneficial than detrimental to the human body. Numerous scientific studies concur with this and the EPA and FDA are now actually recommending people to eat more fish. Also, this “Doctor” stated that a raw food diet is better for the human body. THIS IS NONSENSE! I was lucky enough to sit in on a lecture by Harvard anthropologist Dr. Richard Wrangham who showed (through years of research) that a raw food diet can be severely damaging to the body. For people, a sustained diet of raw foods can lead to infertility, extreme weight loss, low energy and eventually organ failure. We as humans were made to eat food that is cooked! Don’t listen to this article because, well, anyone can write anything they want on the internet, and claim to be whatever they wish. DON’T BELIEVE EVERYTHING YOU READ!PS- YES, fatty acids are extremely beneficial and aid in numerous bodily functions (which is why fish consumption is highly recommended) . Even so, I would take what is written on this website with a grain of salt after reading “Dr. Groups” statement. The guy is a chiropractor, which doesn’t make him an expert in anything besides back-bones and giving people adjustments. Move onto a different website. ENOUGH SAID.I can agree with a lot of info that you are stating but what are your credentials to back up this fact?Throw out your salad dressings peanut butter to much omega 6s.This interferes with omega 3s.Little or no meat in your diet indeed!  Get a clue.  Look in the mirror.  Your body was designed with a clear purpose.  The mere presence of canine teeth are a dead give away.  WE ARE NATURAL PREDATORS PEOPLE.  STOP BEING CRYBABIES ABOUT IT, GROW UP AND DEAL WITH IT.  Predators eat meat.  All the nonsense going around about what meat does to you that is detrimental is blown out of the water when you see how incredibly healthy people are on the Atkins Diet.  OMG, did I say Atkins was a good thing?  Yes!  I went on it for 12 months.  I lost over 62 pounds.  My blood pressure dropped to the mid-range of normal.  My sleep patterns are better.  Even my cholesterol looks way better.  My HDL (the good cholesterol) is 62.  31 is good.  62 is awesome.  We are carnivores people.  When we got away from that and began to consume tons of carbs and processed sugars our bodies made us pay for the mistake.  Get back to nature.  Embrace your inner carnivore.  Your body will thank you.  Mine did.  I am 49 and my Framington Assessment is 4!Wow… obviously you have never done research on cancer or it’s causes . I have seen my share of deaths in result of the quote on quote “Atkins diet due to meat and it’s reliance as viable protien. Atkins diet is great, but show me where he states meat as a necessary or healthy?I would definitely NOT take this with a grain of salt seeing as sodium chloride is VERY BAD FOR YOU!dear sir,  my body weight is 98 kgs age 49years and my bp is 170\100 i am taking bp tablets once a day i want to reduce my weight can this omega 369 will reduse my weight without any side effects  i am in india at chennai city where can i get this tablets  please reply with detail reports  price of tablets                                             with regards   A solomonSince when does the body convert omga-3’s to DHA and EPA? Last I knew the human body lacked the enzymes necessary to desaturate fatty acids to this point.Which is why the marketing on omega-3’s is such BS. They put flax (containing short chain omega-3 ALA) in everything from margarine to yogurt and boast “Omega-3’s”. However, the research shows that the real benefits come from the long chain omega-3’s DHA and EPA, not the shorter ALA (which cannot be converted to the longer version).Then how do you explain gorillas which have massive canine teeth, but yet they are herbivores?Then how do you explain Gorillas? They have canines but yet they are herbivores?FYI Doctors of Chiroptactic have just as much, if not more credit hours than Medical Doctors. Look it up.@ Stephanie  Gorillas also eat ants and termites which is a source of animal proteincanola oil has also been genetically changed to be less susceptible to bugs.  How is changing a food structure healthy.FYI“Chiropractic was founded in 1895 by Daniel David Palmer, a grocer and ‘magnetic healer’ who believed that all diseases are the result of misplaced spinal bones.”“The scope and depth of both normal function as well as disease states taught in conventional medical schools is simply not present in most chiropractic schools. Chiropractic students simply do not receive sufficient training about the recognition and treatment of many disease processes. Chiropractic schools do no have access to patients with a wide range of medical conditions seen in medical schools. Chiropractic organizations and licensing boards have not actively supported or promoted additional residency training after graduation as is standard for medical school graduates.”“Although chiropractors are recognized as ‘Doctors of Chiropractic’ they are not medical doctors. Under current law chiropractors are considered ‘limited providers’ in that there are restrictions on their scope of practice. They can not perform surgery or other invasive procedures nor can they prescribe medications.”Source: Is it safe or recommended to take both Omega 3-6-9 caps and DHA, EPA caps? Or is this overkill? I take Chia 3-6-9 and as a vegan I am doing my best to make sure that I am getting all the nutrients I need to keep optimum health. Should I be taking DHA, EPA instead or in concert with the chia?
Thanks for your help!
MelissaOk, I have been in a bit of a rut for a while now.  I would say I probably suffer from some form of low level depression.  I have been eating a can of sardines or two every day, and have been doing a small workout at least every two days, and I almost immediately noticed a complete lack of the blues, when i started eating more fish.  maybe it is a placebo effect but whatever it is, it is working.  I may be wrong, but i belive that smaller fish like sardines, contain less heavy metals then larger fish like tuna, that eat all the smaller fish and allow the heavy metals to accumulate in their systems.  I likely have many chemicals in my system already (I was a mechanic for 10 years)  so the toxins in fish dont really worry meThank you for your post!  The  has a decent list of fish that may be better to eat and may be worth consideration. Over all I would think that a number of factors would influnce the out come of which would be the safest, such as where the fish is caught and the size, as you have mentioned. Although you may not initially be concerned with the influence of toxins which come from eating fish, I may suggest that these toxins can actually be the cause of symptoms such as depression, hence the need in being precise with the fish that one does consume.  There are ways to  the metals and toxins that enter our body, this may help you with the symptoms your suggesting are problematic for you.  If you find that you have specific questions about detox, or in general, please feel free to contact the  and we will be more than happy to help you.Take care and be well!Well, that doesn’t mean that their classes and exposure to illness, disease, and death is the same.
Even medical assistants have more clinical exposure and experience than Chiropractors!!
Simply knowing a book just does not work in real big boy medicine…  Sorry.
Don’t get me wrong, Chiropractors serve a purpose, but when they come on here and talk crap, It’s bad for everyone.I firmly believe that most if not all disease is caused by toxicity and deficiency.  That may sound simplistic,  but not really.  Take a moment and think about it.  There was once a time when all food was organic.  Livestock and vegetables where all raised without chemicals and genetics.  So it is simple,  Stop putting chemical infused and genetically altered food in your body.  And get back to REAL FOOD, HEALTHY FATS and moderation.     Omega BioPlus™ is a dietary supplement with a unique blend
 of 3, 6 and 9 omega fatty acids obtained from natural vegetable sources
 which are essential for good health. Omega -3 fatty acids are
considered essential fatty acids because they cannot be synthesized by
the human body but are vital for normal metabolism. They play an
important role in reducing inflammation through out the body -in the
blood vessels and joints. Omega 3 fatty acids are important in
preventing many health problems including heart disease, rheumatoid
arthritis and cancer.There are several types of omega 3 fatty acids –
EPA and DHA. Fish and plants like flax contain ALA omega 3 fatty acid
that is partially converted to DHA and EPA in the body. In this way ALA
acts as a precursor for the formation of the essential fatty acids EPA
and DHA.There have been significant studies to prove that too much animal protein is responsible for the acceleration of cancer. In a test sudy, two well-known and highly respected scientists measured the effects of 5% and 20% animal protein given to cancerous mice. The 5% group all stayed at their current level of infection, and the 20% group’s cancer accelerated to death. An enormous effort in China, and the world’s leading study on cancer to-date also suggests that animal protein is responsible for the “amplification” of cancerGorillas are not actually complete herbivores, I can’t remember the name for it but they eat some insects and invertebrates I believe as well as a lot of fruit. I suspect the canines are for breaking hard-shelled fruit? I’m not an expert though.We certainly are omnivores. The exclusion of either animal protein or plant nutrition can have disastrous consequences to your health whether that be a slow decline in health which you may not notice until it is severe or almost instant effects on your health. E.G. if I had no animal nutrition for a week I would feel quite run down by the end of the week, probably quite ratty and possibly a bit ill.Atkins is an extreme diet, as is vegetarianism. That’s like saying MacDonalds is meat, therefore eating meat is unhealthy. A MacD burger is a far cry from a beautiful, organic piece of lean beef fillet!en español  porfavor me responden  si una  persona  esta con mucha  grasa   dentro del cuerpo  y esta  grasa     hace  que el corazon  funcione  en un estado   no normal   puede  tomar  omega  3 o  amega  3 6 9  me informan  porfavor Why are some people always so hostile when expressing their opinions.  I really don’t understand it.I m just start  my doc say take omega 3  to see in two month then have blood test to see cholesterol going down Why are people feuding over whether humans are carnivores. If you want to eat meat then do it. If you don’t then that’s fine too. Get over it. I’m vegetarian and that’s my choice. Ron is just as annoying as vegetarians shoving their beliefs down others throats.fuck. you. you weren’t around for the last 20,000 years to know who ate what so shut the fuck upYou make.the most sense of all the comments I have readthis comment actually made my entire week 😉The problem with meat today is the toxins in it. Meat is healthy for us, in the right amounts, but theres crap in it that makes it bad for us. Of course there is the organic option but 95% of meat comes out of mills. Ewhi! Dr Edward group, may i know what is Essential Fatty Acid in detail? what so Important about it?As a 29 year old vegetarian for 16 years, I can tell you that meat is not needed in your diet.The Atkins Diet is a shock diet. You would lose just as much weight if you eliminated protein from your diet and only ate vegetables, or only carbs, or only juice. Regardless, when you go back to a normal diet after Atkins, your body panics and holds onto all the carbs you left out, and you subsequently gain fat again. The Atkins diet is a proven failure. That’s why you don’t see them advertising it on menus anymore.  And we only have 4 incisors. The rest of our teeth resemble those of a cow. There are plant foods that are tougher than meat.Respected sir, mera weight 80 kg hai age 42 height 5.6 hai mai weight kam karnai kai liya  kya food supliments lai sakta hoo.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()contact me 8867641464
for weight loss,bp reduction,sugar controll,airthritis —100% naturalbangalorePingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Dear Doctor,that article was very informative, thank you. I am planning to go further into what kind of foods contain Omega 3 and 6 acids and to begin reaching for the proper ratio.
I have a question concerning the relation between the three acids: When you say that the body produces Omega 9 acids by itself in case Omega 3 and 6 ressources suffice, does that mean that I do not have to worry about taking enough foods containing Omega 9 as long as I am sure about getting enough foods containing the other two?
Might it even be “too many” acids for my system if i take a sufficient amount of food containing all the three?
I am hoping for your answer!Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()You are wrong disseses and viruses are human made you are honest about food its make immune system weak but viruses are human madeHi ..I’m 44 years old  woman for the past six months I been suffering headaches badly my doctor prescribed me something that the side effects are really strong for me and I stop taking it but I heard that that 369can help I have high cholesterol & chronic migraines Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()All of us shoud have a ratio of 1:1 Omega 3 to omega 6.
Omega 6 in excess can lead to inflamation and other problens, wich is a regular thing since most people eat industrialized foods.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()is ostrich meat a good source of Omega 3,6 and 9? Do ostrich meat have negative effects for regular or occasional consumption? if so what are the negative and positive aspects of ostrich meat?Pingback: ()Pingback: ()When Radium was discovered, these same FDA guys sold us cream and food with Radium contents. Told Radioactivity is good for health and keeps you young.Now a new discovery Omega 3 6 and 9. Yaa hoo again time to make money. After 10 Years they will come back that there is a new thing in body which generate and regulate Omega 3 6 and 9 and provide supplement of that. Seriously the FDA guys think and treat people as fools to keep their pockets.Body is created in nature and is in the best equilibrium as it could. there is a regular food intake to maintain it. That is all. Body produces everything it needs.Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Pingback: ()Yes and what was the average life span back in those days?  Case closed!Pingback: ()Pingback: ()