 that your body requires to maintain optimal health. There is a common misconception that iron is only obtained by eating meat and that  is more prevalent amongst vegans and vegetarians. Natural, plant-based iron supplements and food can provide the iron your body needs and in some cases may even help prevent iron toxicity. If you need to shore up your iron levels, then consider the benefits of plant-based iron.There are two primary —plant and animal foods. The technical terms for these are , respectively. There has been a lot of investigation into the absorption differences between these two types of iron. Although animal, or heme, iron is absorbed faster, it can actually overwhelm your body and even lead to a serious iron . In contrast, the body absorbs plant, or nonheme, iron at a more controlled rate. Slow, regulated absorption helps keep your body’s iron levels optimal and in balance.Low iron levels can lead to fatigue, chills, brain fog, or worse: iron deficiency anemia. Too much iron can lead to vomiting, intense abdominal pain, and even organ failure. Plant-based iron is absorbed more slowly and that helps maintain normal iron balance, which translates to fewer health concerns. In contrast, heme iron from animal sources (blood and tissue) has been linked to heart disease, stroke, and colon cancer. One study reported that increasing your heme iron intake by just one milligram per day could increase your risk of heart disease by 27 percent.Your body has a complex set of mechanisms that work together to absorb, store, utilize, and monitor iron. , for example, supports your body’s ability to absorb iron. Likewise,  significantly influences iron uptake. By obtaining your iron from dark , legumes, , and seeds, you will also get the added benefit of , trace minerals, prebiotics, and . A healthy and consistent intake of fruit and vegetables ensures you don’t miss out on these vital nutrients.There are reasons that extend beyond health concerns why someone may prefer a plant-based diet or lifestyle. Many people prefer to minimize their environmental impact. A diet that includes meat requires more energy, land, and water resources to support. Sticking with  and food for your nutritional needs reduces your .There are nearly endless options when it comes to plant-based sources of iron. Spinach, kidney beans, and pumpkin seeds are just a few options that are packed full of iron and other . However, when it comes to traditional iron supplements in the form of tablets or capsules, there are far fewer plant-based choices. Global Healing Center is trying to change that. We always source our products with high quality, vegan ingredients, and our iron supplement is no different. provides an ideal serving of plant-based iron from organic curry tree leaves along with a proprietary blend of organic thyme and echinacea. Iron Fuzion is manufactured in the United States and is the best vegan iron supplement on the market. If an iron supplement is right for you, try it today and experience the benefits of plant-based iron. Do you have any insight into plant-based iron? Leave a comment below and share your thoughts with us.
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.Hello I have heamochromatosis which was discovered purely by default. I have had to have numerous blood donations done to bring the Ferritin level down. I am a vegetarian and love all the vegetables and salads and eat mainly a raw food diet. I believe that Vitamin C is very beneficial to maintaining the immune system and I drink fresh juices. Is there anything that I must absolutely not take ?Hi, Alex. It’s hard to say as far as what to avoid with hemochromatosis. However, it may be helpful to continue eating foods with non-heme iron like fruits, veggie, nuts, seeds, and even beans. We suggest avoiding raw shellfish overall to stay clear from excitotoxins and harmful bacteria, and this tip may be especially helpful in your situation since people with hemochromatosis are more susceptible to bacterial infections. To be sure that your diet is meeting your needs, we suggest talking to a natural healthcare practitioner or nutritionist for expert advice.i dont like it. it goes against my religionI am working on a Komboecha filled with plantebased Iron. Fermented!  Contact me  if you want to know how.