Eggnog is a holiday favorite appreciated by many, including myself. Traditional eggnog, however, is almost totally comprised of eggs, dairy, and other ingredients that aren’t appropriate for anyone trying to . The solution? Vegan eggnog. While it’s hard to please everyone, especially during the holidays, this vegan eggnog recipe might be something we can all enjoy. It’s absolutely delicious and the cashews and dates give it a smooth texture that even eggnog purists will appreciate.If you check out the recipe analysis, you’ll notice that the fat, sugar, and protein content of this recipe is similar to traditional eggnog. However, vegan eggnog does not have any cholesterol and the cashews provide a healthy dose of , flavonoids, and antioxidants.While I wouldn’t look to this eggnog recipe to cure cancer, it is interesting that some of the compounds in cashews, namely resveratrol, ellagic acid, and anacardic acid, have been found to slow the growth of cancer cells. Oddly enough, there’s some evidence to suggest that egg consumption increases the risk of developing and dying from certain cancers. Eggs also contain choline, which is linked to atherosclerosis, stroke, and heart attack.This holiday, skip the traditional eggnog and make your family a treat that’s sure to become a favorite for years to come.If you enjoy this cashew-based eggnog, try this !
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.Hi Love your products! The Weston Price Foundation says it has modern research showing that raw milk, liver, animal fats( unsure of pork, however), and  bone broths are what our bodies should run on, in order to ensure the next generation of children don’t have any wisdom teeth problems… Does anyone know of a vegan book that specifically challenges the Weston Price Foundation’s research? Because this is to be taken  very seriously, if we are to have proper bone structure like the primitive people’s spoken of in Nutrition and Physical Degeneration by WestonIt might help if you had the quantity of all the ingredients rather than question marks…  I don’t guess well…