      

 are a versatile superfood. They can boost a smoothie, they’re great for baking, perfect in a trail mix, and they’re even a fantastic addition to a salad. Today, we'll look at a delicious vegan goji berry wild rice salad - one of my absolute favorites. It’s wildly colorful and combines the nutritional power of goji berries with wild rice, beets, and chickpeas.When you’re buying ingredients, remember that the fresher an item is, the more nutritional value and natural taste it will have. Admittedly, finding fresh beans can be a challenge. If that's the case, dried beans are the next best option. They’re available most anywhere and are easy to prepare. If you’re in a rush, you can substitute one 15oz can of organic beans, drained and rinsed, for 1 ½ cups of cooked, dried beans.Fresh beets are much easier to find and that's good because beets account for a huge amount of the nutrition in this recipe. Because they're high in beta-carotene and plant-flavonoids, they're great for .  is a great source of nutrients like folate, manganese, vitamin C, and antioxidants. Just be careful, as beets and beet juice stain everything! Beets also contain , an organic compound that supports digestion and nutrient absorption, especially vitamin B12, calcium, and iron.Before we get to the salad itself, let’s start with the vinaigrette dressing. It tastes great!It can be difficult coming up with delicious vegetarian and vegan meal ideas, especially if you're . We all need a little extra inspiration from time to time. Now that you've made your own delicious goji berry wild rice salad, we'd love to hear about it. Tell us how yours turned out in the comments below!
	†Results may vary. Information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. Global Healing Center does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness. The views and nutritional advice expressed by Global Healing Center are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service. If you have a severe medical condition or health concern, see your physician.Why does this take overnight? Am I missing something?Probably in case you use dry beans and have to soak them.