<div class="content">
				
				*Trigger warning for anyone who has*<br><br>I've been wondering how common this is for people. I think it's a shame that it isn't taken more serious as, like being force-fed, being made to ingest substances into your body against your will can be pretty traumatic and violating, but I don't know what the specific laws relating to this kind of abuse are called or how they work.<br><br>On the (arguably) milder end of the spectrum, I was wondering how many people's first experiences with smoking or drugs are pressured or coerced. My only experience with weed, which basically stopped because someone's mum turned up, was in a car, with three other people badgering and goading me into trying it, eventually bring the spliff up to my mouth. It wasn't too bad, but it was very anxiety provoking and I imagine that other people must have experienced the same with cigarette smoking?<br><br>In terms of non-consented drugging, one of my friends tricked me into drinking a 'herbal tea' that was actually some kind of narcoleptic or opiate - I think it was a legal high, rather than opium tea (though a lot of legal and very dubious drugs can be procured from the internet) but I was pretty upset that I had been tricked into drinking it. The effect was mainly that it made me very sleepy, but I felt a little betrayed, especially as my friend's drug use has damaged his life in many ways and I have always tried to be supportive, even when he has acted in destructive ways.<br><br>The worst example that I actually found quite traumatic and has stayed with me, was when I was 17 and at a music festival, for either the first or second time. I was in a crowd (possibly for the band Ash) and a group of blokes in their early 30s came up to me and tried to sell me poppers. I politely refused, but they kept on insisting. I kept turning them down. Then they decided to make me try the poppers anyway, against my wishes. Two of them held my head (one my scalp and one my chin, I think) while the other one held a popper right under my nose. I tried to hold my breath, but eventually I had to breath in, which meant I inhaled it. In terms of side-effects, it gave me a pretty bad headache and nausea, although not much else. The experience of ingesting someone that I knew would have physiological effects on me against my will was pretty scary though - especially as I didn't know what those effects would be. Also (and in retrospect I feel this was a homophobic assumption, but it was admittedly part of the fear) I had previously only heard of poppers in relation to anal sex and so had a vague fear that I might be sexually assaulted after having been made to inhale.<br><br>I don't mean to suggest that these events were really terrible or whatsoever comparable with sexual assault or other forms of sever abuse - but they were more upsetting than one might imagine and I don't even know if they were illegal or not. My friend from the second story informs me that poppers don't cross the blood-brain barrier so they can't really be considered a drug. Obviously what happened to me wasn't as bad as being injected with heroin against one's will, or tricked into unknowingly dropping acid, but it was pretty unpleasant.<br><br>Anyway, I was just wondering if I am alone in these experiences or whether anyone else has been made or tricked into taking drugs or coerced or even physically forced into smoking or drinking?
			</div>