<div class="content">
				
				I know the part about what happened between me and my brother wasnt bullying, but i know bullying didnt make me strong enough to deal with that situation properly.<br><br>I was "intermittently" strong, you could say. There were periods where i knew to keep my head held high and times when i tried my best to do so, and then there were times when i felt too overwhelmed as if the world was against me and i didnt quite know what to do. <br><br>I guess the circumstances behind the bullying are the defining factors. How long were you bullied? How many days out of the week, how frequently? What sort of thing were you bullied for? those kinds of things definately factor in. Say you had a terrible burn covering half of your face (just like twoface in batman...i know i know its a crazy thought, but just go along with it) or you have some sort of congenital defect that makes you appear very 'ugly' to the kids at school. and day in and day out (from kindergarten to your senior year in high school) someone mentioned your burn or defect in a way that made you feel bad or awkward. Now say you had teachers at school that picked on you sometimes. Say you had a family member that pointed it out on occassion. Then you find it hard to make friends because of your 'disability'. Girls are even harder to get (most laugh at you or smirk when they see you or something along those lines). You start to get tired of having to go above and beyond your limits just to prove to people that you're on an equal level, that you deserved to be treated like one of them. Ill tell you from personal experience, it gets tiring. The only thing you start to feel is fear. You start losing hope when you realize that you're always going to be different. Im not saying you arent wrong, because i do believe you can get strong from some forms of bullying (like having a bad habit for example). <br><br>My dad pretty much told me your opinion exactly. I was just a kid, maybe 6 years old at the time. What do kids usually do when they find themselves in trouble or they get picked on? They cry to their parents and come to them for support and help. Thats what i did, but eventually i started to get ridiculed for it. Being told that 'i was playing the victim' on a constant basis didnt help at all. Not every child can problem solve like an adult. Not ever child views things the way adults do, no matter how intelligent they may be. For children to learn how to grow up and strive to fit in and do well in society, i believe that they need to have someone that they can go to for help. I believe that if theyre bullied or picked on, that they NEED to get help for it, because lets face it...most kids cant solve problems on their own in a healthy way.
			</div>