<div class="content">
				
				Hello, <br><br>Since I started working at my current place of employment last year, I have been the target.  My first week there, I heard a couple of my coworkers talking about someone else.  I thought to myself, they are going to talk about me too and I accepted this fact.  Soon enough, they began talking about me.  I knew it was happening and knew it was going to happen. So I did not let it bother me.<br><br>What bothered me though how I was treated.  Yea, I was kind of like the black sheep.  While I did not want to necessarily be part of their group because of the type of people that they are, I still needed to get along with them because they were coworkers, but they didn't want to get along with me.  I would be a team player and help out.  However, when i needed help, they would not do it, but I was always expected to help them.  When I finally started saying no to some things, they would get mad.  I can't do everything, I am not superhuman. But team work was very lopsided. One particular coworker was the worst.  She acted as if she was my superior and above me because she was the one that has been in that particular room the longest.  So she acted as if she was my boss and above me.  No matter what I would do or say, it was never good enough or wrong. I was expected to do everything so she can sit on her ass and thing she is the lead person in the room.  When I would help out in a crisis situation and it was not good enough, she would complain about it.  Ironically, I was the most qualified person there and I got there a year after she did.  Since it was a private school versus a public school and used ABA-something that public schools do not use, I had to start at the bottom.  <br><br>Fortunately, I was given a promotion in less than a year. She is still where she started it. In between me covering for someone for maternity leave in the new position and actually starting my new position, I was being targeted even more.  The person was talking down to me even more so that was degrading and  that I was worthless.  Again, no matter what I did, it was not liked.  <br>Yesterday, I was doing my job and was letting others know I would be giving the other group information, she said in a  rude degrading voice that they already knew.  I was not talking to her.  She still acts like she is above me.  She was never above me and still is not above me.  She is actually below me know.  What I really want to do is punch her in the face and tell her to get her head out of her ass, go look in the mirror and learn she isn't as great as she thinks she is. But this is not appropriate. <br><br>Also, when I mentioned to HR, they listened, but also said, well this could be thought of this way and actually interpreted this way..meaning I could be overreacting.  I could be overreacting, but I know what is happening.  This particular group of people are known to be gossipers and talk about others as soon as they left the room.  Mean girls is a good term for them. <br><br>At the same time, I would not have gotten the promotion if it was not for my work ethic, my past experiences and my knowledge.  I know I need to let go, but it will going to take time.  However, I do not think those above will ever stop this kind of behavior.  I need to stay away from them, but it is part of my job to work a little with them.  the ring leader is not even planning on staying here for a long time  Why am i always the target for their bullying.
			</div>