<div class="content">
				
				When I was 22 - 24 I was in a relationship with a guy who I thought loved me but in the end didn't. After I told my parents what happened they told me I was being Bullied, but I don't know whether to believe them or not; so I'm looking for some impartial advice.<br><br>Most of the time, me and my boyfriend  got on great. But it wasn't very long into the relationship that I realised the slightest thing would make him angry and he would get really jealous. <br><br>The first thing I remember is being late home from work one day - it was just one of those days where everything took longer than usual. When I got home he went nuts, accused me of seeing someone else behind his back. I thought it was my fault cos I didn't Text to say I would be late, but his reaction was so extreme. I must also point out that this was my first real adult relationship and I thought it was perfectly normal to behave like this.<br><br>Soon after I learned he didn't trust me. I remember one day I had to go to Asda without him and he reset the mileage on the car. He said I know it's 1.6 miles to asda and 1.6 miles, so if there's any more than 3.2 on it I know you've been up to no good. I did what I was told and surely enough it made out to be 3.2 miles but I did think what an odd thing to do.<br><br>He had to know where I was at all times, who I was with and how long I would be. After a while I wasn't allowed to go out unless he came with me. One time he begged to come on a works night out, which was for employees only. Surely enough he came along, embarrassed me by getting extremely drunk and threatening to punch once of my colleagues because he thought he fancied me.<br><br>One night my mum called me on a private number. I answered the call and we had a nice chat. He asked who it was - I said my mum but he didn't believe me and because she called on a private number I had No way of proving it. We argues for ages and led to him banging his head against the wall and scaring me so much that I thought he Was going to kill himself.<br><br>Speaking of killing himself, one day we were getting on great and suddenly he blurts out 'you know if you ever left me I will kill myself'. Those words will stick with me for life. It made me think that I could never leave him, even though some times I wanted to but I thought if I did he would kill himself and I would be to blame for it.<br><br>there were Times he made attempts at suicide which terrified me and I had to call for an ambulance at least 4 times in our 2 year relationship. looking back it was just a classic case of attention seeking as I found out what he did was no where near enough damage to kill him self.<br><br>I was looking for new jobs as I wanted something with a bit more money. I don't know if he planned but everytime I had an interview he would cause a scene which would upset me and leave me in no state to go for an interview.<br><br>I also remember signing up for a drama class as I wanted to boost my confidence and do something outside work. he said he would pick me up from work on the night of the first class. when he picked me up he said he had a few things to do. I noticed time ticking on and said I need to get to my class, his reply was 'why do you want to do that'? and just carried on driving around. this really upset me as I knew drama one be a way to escape my life.<br><br>another occasion I was supposed to meet him after work for a drink. he told me to meet him at the pub, but when I arrived he wasn't there. I called, text and waited around but there was no sign of him. so I decided to head home, I was tired and worried that something may have happened to him. as I was almost home he rang me and was so annoyed with me. as I was so close to home I decided to stay home and he stayed out all night. he then came home and brought someone with him. he then made a point of coming into our room to get a condom. I told him if he used it that would be us finished. to this day I don't know whether he used it or not - he denies he did.<br><br>he was an alcoholic and would regularly have his daily units before lunchtime. one time he wanted to drive drunk, but I wouldn't let him so I drove instead. we were stopped by the police, who seized the car as it had no insurance. I was furious - he never told me the car had no insurance. what's more is I got a fine and was given 6 penalty points. This is when my parents found out and started to question my relationship with him<br><br>the company I worked ran into financial difficulties and I was made redundant. I was given 2 months wages to cover it. when he found out he made me pay for 2 months of rent upfront as I wasn't guaranteed anymore work. I questioned him on this and he started another argument with me, so I paid it. as I was now unemployed I wanted to claim benefits, however he told me that only one person per household can claim benefits which was him so I wouldn't get a look in. Because I didn't know the welfare system I believed him. I really struggled financially and had to beg my parents for money, who questioned why I was so low on cash. when I explained what happened, they told me the truth about welfare and that believed that my boyfriend was bullying me. I later learned my boyfriend had told the council he was living in the property alone and therfore was claiming the entire rent for the place. I was also paying him £400 a month to stay there - so he was making money from me. when my 2 months of rent ended he told me I would need to pack my things and leave as he couldn't afford to keep me. although I didn't expect to live anywhere for free, I also thought he is my boyfriend and he is supposed to support me in my time of need. I packed my stuff up and sent them onto my parents. the day I was due to leave he met me at the coach station and said I could stay with him for another few days.<br><br>when the few days were up i was stuck and had no where to go. we argued but he put his foot down and said no I couldn't stay with him if I wasn't bringing any money in. he then went on to tell one of his friends, who then sent me a threatening text basically saying get out or I will come down there myself and force you out.<br><br>my parents gave me money to stay in a hotel for a few nights and again my boyfriend contacted me and said I could stay with him for a few more nights. this time we argued again about living arrangements, I was so annoyed that I walked out in a fit of rage. as I was walking down the street sobbing I thought to myself I can't go back to him. so I walked all the way to a friends house and knocked on his door, who welcomed me with open arms. <br><br>I don't know if it's karma but the week after I found a new job and was earning money again. my boyfriend tried to call me but I just blocked his calls and messages. I moved to an area a few miles away to rebuild my life  the first few months were tough but I learned that not everyone is a bully. but the scars still remain, I'm now afraid to get close to people in case they treat me like that again.
			</div>