<div class="content">
				
				Throughout my life, I have been painfully shy and had a hard time making friends and bullied throughout. As a result, I had been somewhat socially awkward with a low self-esteem. <br>For the most part, I have always been nice to others and never made fun of others--once at the expense of getting bullied myself!<br>From college onwards, I have had friends and not been made fun of as much, since people became more mature. However, there are times when I have been hurting over stuff that has happened. <br>I really never knew how to handle bullies. If I ignored them, people would accuse me of being a doormat. (And it is so hard to not react when you are getting slapped in the face) If I stood up to them, people would accuse me of being mean. <br>For the most part, I put it behind me. However, there was one day five years ago when I got rejected by this program and felt bitter. So I decided to make use of that negativity by writing nasty e-mails to people throughout my life (from second grade to high school) that have gone out of their way to ruin my life. A part of me regrets doing that. My friend told me that I crossed the line with those bullies. I figured on my own that it was not necessary to  go to the extent that I did with those former bullies. For example, I put down a big bully that was short and fat. I told her that she, who was short and fat, bullied me who was tall and thin. I really regret making fun of those bullies' appearance. My friend told me that I stooped to a level lower than they were many years ago by doing that. However, I still think that they are the ones who went out of their way to hurt me (even though it was many years ago) so I was not really stooping to a level lower than them. <br>Do not get me wrong. I am someone who would never hurt try to hurt the feelings of someone who has not done me wrong. I cry whenever I have ended up hurting people's feelings. For the most part, I did not join in to make fun of outcasts. In sixth grade, I was friends with two outcast girls. When the bully/leader of the class told me to ditch them, I would not so she turned the whole class against me. I was shocked when those two girls I stood up for joined in the gang against me!<br>So anyway, as I was saying, I do not think that I really did something despicable by confronting those bullies since they were the ones to hurt me first. Although I learned from my mistake of putting down their physical appearance and getting personal.<br>My friend, who was then studying to be a lawyer, told me that my nasty e-mails could have been used against me legally and that I was very, very lucky that the receivers of the e-mails did not sue me. I guess you could say that I myself turned into a cyberbully.<br>A part of me still feels the urge to continue to write nasty e-mails to the people that have gone out of their way to cause me harm. A part of me believes that people who have gone out of their way to make another feel bad have signed themselves up to be the victim's punching bag whenever the victim is in a bad mood. That part of me believes that the bullies are asking for it. However, another part of me believes that it is counterproductive to go in the direction of the dark side. <br>Since that one incident, there has been one other incident where I have written reprimanding e-mails. However, that time, I made sure not to cross the legal line and stuck with points relevant to their despicable behavior and avoided getting personal. Here is an explanation of the scenario: There were these twin guys who were the parasites of our class. They were in the cool group in high school, but were always there to pass mean, rude, and immature comments about any and every person, including their own friends, and try to start fights with them. No one really liked them and everyone hated them because they were like that, as several people told me. They often poked fun of me and were mean to me for no reason. Some of the things that they said and did to me still bothered me, even twelve years after graduating high school. So I wrote to them on Facebook, telling them that it is about time that someone laid the truth on them and that, unlike they thought that they were really popular, everyone hated them since they were always there to try to hurt people. It was about time that they got a taste of their own medicine. However, I really did not stoop to their level since I did not try to make fun of them the way that they made fun of me and did not make any personal remarks and stuck with points that were relevant to their bullying. I really hope to have put them in their place and fed them humble pie with what I wrote them. I feel much better, that it is off my chest now that I gave them a piece of my mind. I also did not think it fair that people could be friendly with them and not me, who would have made a better friend. For example, there was this girl whom I admired very much who ended up marrying this nice guy whom I also appreciated from high school. I really wanted so badly to be friends with that girl and that guy. Those twin bullies made fun of that girl behind her back, calling her the most crass names. I wonder if the girl and her husband ever found out. Anyway the guy and girl ended up inviting those twins to their wedding (whom I do not think they were that close to), but not me (who had always said even before they went out that they would make a good couple). I felt so jealous of the twins and that it was unfair. One day when I was mentioning to my Mom how those twins did not get along with anyone, she had to rub it in my face by saying, "But they got invited to [that girl &amp; guy's] wedding!" I got so mad that my Mom was defending those twins and also that she mentioned something that she knew I was not happy about. <br>Thank you for reading this long post. My main question is: Do you think it is a good idea to confront bullies from the past and put them in their place?
			</div>