<div class="content">
				
				Here's a bunch of tips I came up with. Sorry I didn't signify that haha, like a double post. Hopefully this helps more. This is slightly different than my first post as this one actually has helpful information rather than just a couple of analogies, sorry about that haha.<br><br>That's an absolutely horrible thing to have to go through, and I want you to know first of all you have all of our support. Also, it is normal to hold on to emotions, everyone does it. You need to know however that there is nothing that separates you from others or makes you inferior or superior, and that we are all equal, literally. I think the best thing for you to do now is to self repair, perhaps find someone that can relate in real life, a parent or close friend. When there is no one to turn to, I heal usually just help myself by repeating to myself good things, or pushing the negative thoughts out. It seems like over time emotions fade, at least for me. They sting like a brand at first, but they seem to diminish once the emotion is replaced by rationality. Also, something else that I find REALLY helpful is to empathize with the bullies. Behind every action is a good intention, even if it is for the person themselves. Basically, one of the most common motivators for horrendous behavior like this is insecurity. They simply project what they are onto you, to try to get someone else down. They are ASKING you to help them, they just don't know how to ask. I've often been bullied, but I realize that the bully is in a sort of pain and they are nonverbally asking me to accept and understand them, they just aren't aware of it.<br><br>Also, if you want to hear what I personally do, is I absorb as much bullying as I can for others. I will take the punches and then turn around and help someone, or donate, something to make me feel good and denote the bully, almost like no matter what they do you will continue to uphold a moral standard. I feel really good when helping others because I realize that I am alleviating the suffering that I experience for them, and I feel satisfied doing that. With every amount of suffering I remove from another, I remove a tiny bit for myself.<br><br>I hope this helps a bit. My techniques have helped me, and I'm not sure how well they will help others, but here's a lot of ideas just incase.
			</div>